Return green flights from Queensland have started. Managed return flights for those stranded in NSW will commence on Tuesday 13 July. You may be interested in New South Wales COVID-19 vaccines Return green flights from Queensland Locations of interest in Australia Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Travel declaration for travelling quarantine-free to NZ Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates The new order will extend to cover a further 1,800 currently unvaccinated active border workers. It will come into effect at 11:59pm on 14 July. Managed return flights will begin from tomorrow. Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- 7 July 2021 media conference 30 June 2021 media conference 29 June 2021 media conference 27 June 2021 media conference Vaccine booking tool demonstration --- Section Separator --- If you’re in Group 3, you'll be invited to book your vaccinations by the end of July. Vaccinations for Group 4 start 28 July. Once it’s your turn, you can be vaccinated at any time — there’s no cut-off, and no one will miss out. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we'll be. Find out when you can get a COVID-19 vaccine and how to book your vaccination appointments.
How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Access covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Find phone numbers for when you want help, advice or information. Who to contact if you want to provide feedback to the COVID-19 Group. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives. --- Section Separator --- How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Access covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Find phone numbers for when you want help, advice or information. Who to contact if you want to provide feedback to the COVID-19 Group. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives.
Home About this site Contact a helpline --- Section Separator --- Call 111 immediately in an emergency. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Mental wellbeing helplines Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention helplines A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what the current Alert Level means for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you have questions or feedback about the NZ COVID Tracer app: call 0800 800 606 on Monday to Friday, 8am to 5pm. get help generating your official QR code posters by emailing help@covidtracer.min.health.nz email your query or feedback to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz In your email, include your phone’s make and model, the operating system you’re running and, if your query relates to an issue you’re experiencing, a brief description of the issue. If you have questions about managed isolation and quarantine, including charges and exemptions: Call 0800 ISOMIQ ( 0800 476 647 ) from within New Zealand. Call +64 4 931 5720 from outside New Zealand or if you’re in New Zealand with an international SIM. Rates will apply. Email enquiries@miq.govt.nz Many government agencies have language support available, if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Call 111 immediately in an emergency. --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Mental wellbeing helplines Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention helplines --- Section Separator --- A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what the current Alert Level means for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. --- Section Separator --- If you have questions or feedback about the NZ COVID Tracer app: call 0800 800 606 on Monday to Friday, 8am to 5pm. get help generating your official QR code posters by emailing help@covidtracer.min.health.nz email your query or feedback to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz In your email, include your phone’s make and model, the operating system you’re running and, if your query relates to an issue you’re experiencing, a brief description of the issue. --- Section Separator --- If you have questions about managed isolation and quarantine, including charges and exemptions: Call 0800 ISOMIQ ( 0800 476 647 ) from within New Zealand. Call +64 4 931 5720 from outside New Zealand or if you’re in New Zealand with an international SIM. Rates will apply. Email enquiries@miq.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Many government agencies have language support available, if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages --- Section Separator --- If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Use this website for free from your mobile Contact a helpline Provide feedback Archive
Guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Advice about meeting friends and whānau safely, and going to private social gatherings. Advice about attending large events and using public facilities at each of the Alert Levels. What to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. Information on eating out and going to cafes, restaurants, bars and night clubs during the different Alert Levels. Advice on playing sports and other recreational activities at each of the Alert Levels Information on shopping, visiting retail stores and using personal care services. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on shared parenting arrangements, childcare and using childcare providers during the different Alert Levels. Advice for renters, landlords and homeowners, and guidance if you need help with accommodation. Download and print these resources to remind everyone to practise good hygiene and keep track of where they've been. --- Section Separator --- Guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Advice about meeting friends and whānau safely, and going to private social gatherings. Advice about attending large events and using public facilities at each of the Alert Levels. What to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. Information on eating out and going to cafes, restaurants, bars and night clubs during the different Alert Levels. Advice on playing sports and other recreational activities at each of the Alert Levels Information on shopping, visiting retail stores and using personal care services. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on shared parenting arrangements, childcare and using childcare providers during the different Alert Levels. Advice for renters, landlords and homeowners, and guidance if you need help with accommodation. Download and print these resources to remind everyone to practise good hygiene and keep track of where they've been.
Home Activities Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open as normal. There are no limits on the number of people you can drink or dine with, and you do not have to be seated to be served. All cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open, but with extra safety measures. All restaurants and cafes can have a maximum of 100 people on their premises at a time. This might mean you have to wait for a table. We recommend you call ahead and book. If you're dining in, follow the 3 S's: Seated — you must remain seated at your table unless you're entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your meal. Separated — you must be physically separated from other customers by 1 metre. Single server — each table will only have 1 server, where practical. At Alert Level 2, food courts can open but with physical distancing and extra hygiene measures. There may be reduced seating due to physical distancing. If you're waiting in line to order, keep 2 metres away from other customers and staff. You can go to cafes to get counter food to take away to eat. It's up to the cafe to decide if customers can bring their own reusable cups or containers. The cafe must have good hygiene processes if it allows them. You can continue to use food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and UberEats. To keep yourself and others safe, try to: use a contactless payment or prepay online if possible keep at least 1 metre distance from the delivery driver ask the driver to leave your delivery at the door to reduce contact. At Alert Level 2, bars and night clubs can open with seated service only. This means you'll need to stay seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your drinks. Dance floors are closed. You'll need to order drinks through your server. Do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. You can play pool and use gaming machines if you can keep 1 metre apart from others. You can not eat or drink while playing pool. Cafes, restaurants and takeaways can open at Alert Level 3, but only for contactless pick-up, delivery or drive through. You cannot go in to dine. Nightclubs are closed. Food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and Uber Eats, can also operate at Alert Level 3. Liquor stores can only offer contactless pick-up and delivery (if their liquor licence allows delivery). Everyone has a role to play in slowing the spread of COVID-19. If you feel unwell, stay at home. If you have cold or flu symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for advice on if you need to get tested. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer App Cough or sneeze into your elbow Wash or sanitise your hands before you sit down to eat or drink Follow the establishment's safety measures. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open as normal. There are no limits on the number of people you can drink or dine with, and you do not have to be seated to be served. All cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open, but with extra safety measures. All restaurants and cafes can have a maximum of 100 people on their premises at a time. This might mean you have to wait for a table. We recommend you call ahead and book. If you're dining in, follow the 3 S's: Seated — you must remain seated at your table unless you're entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your meal. Separated — you must be physically separated from other customers by 1 metre. Single server — each table will only have 1 server, where practical. At Alert Level 2, food courts can open but with physical distancing and extra hygiene measures. There may be reduced seating due to physical distancing. If you're waiting in line to order, keep 2 metres away from other customers and staff. You can go to cafes to get counter food to take away to eat. It's up to the cafe to decide if customers can bring their own reusable cups or containers. The cafe must have good hygiene processes if it allows them. You can continue to use food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and UberEats. To keep yourself and others safe, try to: use a contactless payment or prepay online if possible keep at least 1 metre distance from the delivery driver ask the driver to leave your delivery at the door to reduce contact. At Alert Level 2, bars and night clubs can open with seated service only. This means you'll need to stay seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your drinks. Dance floors are closed. You'll need to order drinks through your server. Do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. You can play pool and use gaming machines if you can keep 1 metre apart from others. You can not eat or drink while playing pool. --- Section Separator --- Cafes, restaurants and takeaways can open at Alert Level 3, but only for contactless pick-up, delivery or drive through. You cannot go in to dine. Nightclubs are closed. Food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and Uber Eats, can also operate at Alert Level 3. Liquor stores can only offer contactless pick-up and delivery (if their liquor licence allows delivery). --- Section Separator --- Everyone has a role to play in slowing the spread of COVID-19. If you feel unwell, stay at home. If you have cold or flu symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for advice on if you need to get tested. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer App Cough or sneeze into your elbow Wash or sanitise your hands before you sit down to eat or drink Follow the establishment's safety measures. --- Section Separator --- Education Keep track of where you've been Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Sports and recreation Shopping and services Shared custody and childcare Life at home Signs and posters for businesses or venues
Home Activities Education --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. There are no restrictions on school activities like camps, sports practices, school productions and interschool events. If you or your child is sick, staying home is the best thing you can do to stop the spread of COVID-19. Remind your tamariki (children) to wash and dry their hands often, and cough or sneeze into their elbow. All schools, kura and early learning services legally must display a QR code. If you have older children, encourage them to sign in and keep track of where they have been. The NZ COVID Tracer app is the best way to help us contact trace quickly and safely. Advice for parents and whānau (external link) At Alert Level 2, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. Schools should put extra public health control measures in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and keep staff, ākonga (students) and tamariki (children) safe. Schools should provide distance learning options for tamariki (children) who cannot attend school – for example, if they need to self-isolate. School events or activities like performances, cultural events and sports can continue. Ākonga (students) and teachers do not need to physically distance. But parents, carers and whānau who visit the school should try to keep 2m apart from people they do not know. More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) At Alert Level 3, tamariki (children) and young people should learn from home. Schools will be open for those tamariki (children) whose parents or carers need to go to work. Play centres and playgroups must close. Schools should provide distance learning options for all tamariki (children) and young people who are learning from home, including those tamariki (children) who need to self-isolate and cannot attend school. Schools may set up bubbles to help maintain physical distancing in the classroom and outside. Parents, carers and whānau who are visitors to the school should keep 2m apart from people outside their household. Ministry of Education resources and advice for parents and whānau for learning from home (external link) More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) At Alert Level 3, all tertiary education providers should deliver their courses online. In some cases, online learning may not be an option, for example lab work or research. Tertiary providers can deliver some education services in person if they can meet public health guidelines. Limit in person classes or workshops to 20 people per class. Each class is considered a ‘bubble’ and must not interact with any other student/staff bubbles of 20. Student accomodation, for example university halls of residence can remain open with physical distancing and extra hygiene measures. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers/whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) All tamariki (children), young people, and ākonga (students) should stay home if they are unwell. If you or your child develops cold or flu symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. If you or your child are told to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. If you or your child are asked to get a COVID-19 test, please get one. COVID-19 tests are free for everyone, including international students. By getting a test you are helping keep everyone safe. More information on getting a COVID-19 test Tamaraki (children), young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at: schools early learning centres, or on school transport. Children and staff may wear face coverings at school if they choose to. Tamariki (children) and ākonga (students) who are over 12 years old legally must wear a face covering on public transport. People with certain health or medical conditions do not have to wear face coverings. Find out when you need to wear a face covering If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it will close for at least 72 hours to allow for cleaning and contact tracing. Schools should follow Ministry of Health advice or advice from the local health authority. Alert Level changes mean that some children will have less contact with trusted adults than usual. If you’re worried that a child or young person, you can contact Oranga Tamariki. This could include if you know a child is not safe or is not with their parents or caregivers. Contact Oranga Tamariki, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Phone 0508 326 459 Email contact@ot.govt.nz If you're an ākonga (student) who is struggling financially, you may be able to ask Studylink for help. COVID-19 information for students (external link) If you're an international student, you may be able to apply for the Emergency Benefit. The Emergency Benefit is a weekly payment to help pay for basic living costs while you arrange to get home as soon as you can. You can apply for the Emergency Benefit until 31 August 2021. Find out if you can get the Emergency Benefit, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. There are no restrictions on school activities like camps, sports practices, school productions and interschool events. If you or your child is sick, staying home is the best thing you can do to stop the spread of COVID-19. Remind your tamariki (children) to wash and dry their hands often, and cough or sneeze into their elbow. All schools, kura and early learning services legally must display a QR code. If you have older children, encourage them to sign in and keep track of where they have been. The NZ COVID Tracer app is the best way to help us contact trace quickly and safely. Advice for parents and whānau (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. Schools should put extra public health control measures in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and keep staff, ākonga (students) and tamariki (children) safe. Schools should provide distance learning options for tamariki (children) who cannot attend school – for example, if they need to self-isolate. School events or activities like performances, cultural events and sports can continue. Ākonga (students) and teachers do not need to physically distance. But parents, carers and whānau who visit the school should try to keep 2m apart from people they do not know. More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, tamariki (children) and young people should learn from home. Schools will be open for those tamariki (children) whose parents or carers need to go to work. Play centres and playgroups must close. Schools should provide distance learning options for all tamariki (children) and young people who are learning from home, including those tamariki (children) who need to self-isolate and cannot attend school. Schools may set up bubbles to help maintain physical distancing in the classroom and outside. Parents, carers and whānau who are visitors to the school should keep 2m apart from people outside their household. Ministry of Education resources and advice for parents and whānau for learning from home (external link) More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) At Alert Level 3, all tertiary education providers should deliver their courses online. In some cases, online learning may not be an option, for example lab work or research. Tertiary providers can deliver some education services in person if they can meet public health guidelines. Limit in person classes or workshops to 20 people per class. Each class is considered a ‘bubble’ and must not interact with any other student/staff bubbles of 20. Student accomodation, for example university halls of residence can remain open with physical distancing and extra hygiene measures. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers/whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) --- Section Separator --- All tamariki (children), young people, and ākonga (students) should stay home if they are unwell. If you or your child develops cold or flu symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. If you or your child are told to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. If you or your child are asked to get a COVID-19 test, please get one. COVID-19 tests are free for everyone, including international students. By getting a test you are helping keep everyone safe. More information on getting a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Tamaraki (children), young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at: schools early learning centres, or on school transport. Children and staff may wear face coverings at school if they choose to. Tamariki (children) and ākonga (students) who are over 12 years old legally must wear a face covering on public transport. People with certain health or medical conditions do not have to wear face coverings. Find out when you need to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it will close for at least 72 hours to allow for cleaning and contact tracing. Schools should follow Ministry of Health advice or advice from the local health authority. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level changes mean that some children will have less contact with trusted adults than usual. If you’re worried that a child or young person, you can contact Oranga Tamariki. This could include if you know a child is not safe or is not with their parents or caregivers. Contact Oranga Tamariki, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Phone 0508 326 459 Email contact@ot.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- If you're an ākonga (student) who is struggling financially, you may be able to ask Studylink for help. COVID-19 information for students (external link) If you're an international student, you may be able to apply for the Emergency Benefit. The Emergency Benefit is a weekly payment to help pay for basic living costs while you arrange to get home as soon as you can. You can apply for the Emergency Benefit until 31 August 2021. Find out if you can get the Emergency Benefit, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Education Keep track of where you've been Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Sports and recreation Shopping and services Shared custody and childcare Life at home Signs and posters for businesses or venues
Home Activities Sports and recreation --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities. There are no limits on the number of people you can exercise with. Community sports and large sporting events and tournaments can go ahead. There is no limit on the number of spectators. All indoor and outdoor recreation facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, climbing walls, driving ranges and skate parks can open. If you’re unwell, you should stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still continue to keep track of where you go, wash your hands before and after touching shared equipment and surfaces, and stay home if sick. These actions help to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community. All sport and recreation event organisers, including voluntary and not-for-profit organisations and businesses providing facilities or venues for sports activities legally must display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes to help with contact tracing. At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you’re sick, stay home. When exercising in public, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know if possible. You can do activities like: walking, biking and hunting, including on public conservation land — overnight trips are okay swimming at a public swimming pool, but there will be restrictions going to the gym, but there will be restrictions boating and motorised watersports. When exercising outside, try to record the route you took and when. You can exercise with others in a group. Someone in the group should keep a record of the people you're with. At Alert Level 2, p ublic parks and playgrounds are open and families can get together for their children to play. You can drive to play in a public space, for example a beach or a park. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know. Wash or sanitise your hands after using shared equipment, and encourage tamariki (children) to do the same. At Alert Level 2, indoor sports facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, dance studios and health clubs can open, but with extra safety measures. You'll need to keep 1 metre apart from others. Facilities may restrict numbers to help with physical distancing. Wipe down and clean shared gym equipment after you use it. If you use a recreation facility, remember to sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. At Alert Level 2, team sports events can continue. These are limited to 100 people. This includes both indoor and outdoor venues. The 100 person limit includes players and spectators. Referees, officials and other workers providing services to a sports game are not included in the 100 people. If a sports ground has more than 1 field, you can play multiple games at the same time, as long as each group is separated. Groups should try not to mix with each other, or share common facilities such as changing rooms at the same time. If you’re organising a sports event, make sure everyone records their visit. If you’re watching the event, stand 2 metres away from others. Guidelines from Sport New Zealand (external link) At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers. You also need to follow the whitebait regulations. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. Spectators at professional sports games are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a sports game or tournament. If the event is in an Alert Level 2 region, the 100 person limit applies. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Rules for gatherings and events at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 3, you can exercise in your local area on your own, or with people in your household bubble. If you're exercising outside, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people who are not in your bubble. The most important thing is to stay safe and stay close to home. Go to your local park or beach, not your favourite one. You cannot stay overnight at your bach or holiday home. Do low-risk activities so you do not need rescuing or medical care. If you’re experienced you can do more activities. These include: surfing — if you’re an experienced surfer, you can go to your local break. If you’re not experienced, don’t surf. tramping — is okay for day walks on easy trails. Remember to keep your distance from other people. DOC huts and campsites are closed. mountain biking — is okay on easy trails if you're experienced and know the trail. Choose a trail close to home. swimming — in safe local spots. horse riding — if you’re an experienced rider and it's low risk. Stay as close to home as you can. Stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. Some trails or parks may be closed. Check with your local council to see what trails or parks are open before heading out. Do not go out to exercise if you have cold or flu symptoms. Please stay home and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your GP for advice. Flying manned aircraft Hunting in motorised vehicles Water-based activities involving sailing boats, motorised boats or other craft like jet skis, and scuba diving Team sports and training with people outside of your household bubble. At Alert Level 3, playgrounds are closed. At Alert Level 3, indoor recreation facilities such as gyms and swimming pools must close. Personal trainers and exercise instructors can offer virtual sessions that can be done from home. You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. Stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Do not go on an overnight hunting trip. You can only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. If you're out hunting, you still need to follow the local regulations. You can fish from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. Keep it local — go to your nearest fishing spot, not your favourite fishing spot. At Alert Level 3, you can fish for whitebait during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and do not use motorised vehicles to get to your fishing spot. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including: only fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge not entering the water not using a boat to fish. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it’s close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities. There are no limits on the number of people you can exercise with. Community sports and large sporting events and tournaments can go ahead. There is no limit on the number of spectators. All indoor and outdoor recreation facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, climbing walls, driving ranges and skate parks can open. If you’re unwell, you should stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still continue to keep track of where you go, wash your hands before and after touching shared equipment and surfaces, and stay home if sick. These actions help to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community. All sport and recreation event organisers, including voluntary and not-for-profit organisations and businesses providing facilities or venues for sports activities legally must display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes to help with contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you’re sick, stay home. When exercising in public, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know if possible. You can do activities like: walking, biking and hunting, including on public conservation land — overnight trips are okay swimming at a public swimming pool, but there will be restrictions going to the gym, but there will be restrictions boating and motorised watersports. When exercising outside, try to record the route you took and when. You can exercise with others in a group. Someone in the group should keep a record of the people you're with. At Alert Level 2, p ublic parks and playgrounds are open and families can get together for their children to play. You can drive to play in a public space, for example a beach or a park. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know. Wash or sanitise your hands after using shared equipment, and encourage tamariki (children) to do the same. At Alert Level 2, indoor sports facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, dance studios and health clubs can open, but with extra safety measures. You'll need to keep 1 metre apart from others. Facilities may restrict numbers to help with physical distancing. Wipe down and clean shared gym equipment after you use it. If you use a recreation facility, remember to sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. At Alert Level 2, team sports events can continue. These are limited to 100 people. This includes both indoor and outdoor venues. The 100 person limit includes players and spectators. Referees, officials and other workers providing services to a sports game are not included in the 100 people. If a sports ground has more than 1 field, you can play multiple games at the same time, as long as each group is separated. Groups should try not to mix with each other, or share common facilities such as changing rooms at the same time. If you’re organising a sports event, make sure everyone records their visit. If you’re watching the event, stand 2 metres away from others. Guidelines from Sport New Zealand (external link) At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers. You also need to follow the whitebait regulations. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. Spectators at professional sports games are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a sports game or tournament. If the event is in an Alert Level 2 region, the 100 person limit applies. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Rules for gatherings and events at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you can exercise in your local area on your own, or with people in your household bubble. If you're exercising outside, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people who are not in your bubble. The most important thing is to stay safe and stay close to home. Go to your local park or beach, not your favourite one. You cannot stay overnight at your bach or holiday home. Do low-risk activities so you do not need rescuing or medical care. If you’re experienced you can do more activities. These include: surfing — if you’re an experienced surfer, you can go to your local break. If you’re not experienced, don’t surf. tramping — is okay for day walks on easy trails. Remember to keep your distance from other people. DOC huts and campsites are closed. mountain biking — is okay on easy trails if you're experienced and know the trail. Choose a trail close to home. swimming — in safe local spots. horse riding — if you’re an experienced rider and it's low risk. Stay as close to home as you can. Stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. Some trails or parks may be closed. Check with your local council to see what trails or parks are open before heading out. Do not go out to exercise if you have cold or flu symptoms. Please stay home and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your GP for advice. Flying manned aircraft Hunting in motorised vehicles Water-based activities involving sailing boats, motorised boats or other craft like jet skis, and scuba diving Team sports and training with people outside of your household bubble. At Alert Level 3, playgrounds are closed. At Alert Level 3, indoor recreation facilities such as gyms and swimming pools must close. Personal trainers and exercise instructors can offer virtual sessions that can be done from home. You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. Stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Do not go on an overnight hunting trip. You can only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. If you're out hunting, you still need to follow the local regulations. You can fish from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. Keep it local — go to your nearest fishing spot, not your favourite fishing spot. At Alert Level 3, you can fish for whitebait during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and do not use motorised vehicles to get to your fishing spot. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including: only fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge not entering the water not using a boat to fish. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it’s close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. --- Section Separator --- Education Keep track of where you've been Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Sports and recreation Shopping and services Shared custody and childcare Life at home Signs and posters for businesses or venues
Home Activities Funerals and tangihanga --- Section Separator --- There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga at Alert Level 1. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold one. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at funerals and tangihanga to help in contact tracing. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 2, up to 100 people in each defined space can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate or unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu. Social gathering rules apply to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes churches, mosques and other faith-based institutions hired venues or facilities private dwellings. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. The organiser legally must ensure that contact tracing requirements are met. Do not attend the gathering if the number of people is more than 100 in a defined space If there are people at the gathering you do not know, make sure you scan the QR code or give your details to an organiser. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau close friends. More information about gatherings and events Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Funerals, tangihanga and burials are allowed at Alert Level 3, but are limited to 10 people or under. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Up to 10 people in the same bubble may go to view the tūpapaku, the person who has died, by appointment with the funeral director. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in groups of up to 10 from the same bubble. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to maintain physical distance. They can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. No food or drink can be served, and physical distancing should be maintained between people. If you're attending a funeral or tangihanga we recommend still keeping 2 metres apart from people not in your bubble. You’re strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while maintaining a physical distance from people not in your bubble. The general guidance for avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. At Alert Level 3 there are strict restrictions in place for travel between regions. This is necessary to reduce the spread of COVID-19. If you need to travel into or out of a region at Alert Level 3 for a funeral or tangihanga you will need to apply for an exemption. Regional travel --- Section Separator --- There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga at Alert Level 1. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold one. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at funerals and tangihanga to help in contact tracing. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, up to 100 people in each defined space can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate or unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu. Social gathering rules apply to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes churches, mosques and other faith-based institutions hired venues or facilities private dwellings. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. The organiser legally must ensure that contact tracing requirements are met. Do not attend the gathering if the number of people is more than 100 in a defined space If there are people at the gathering you do not know, make sure you scan the QR code or give your details to an organiser. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau close friends. More information about gatherings and events Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). --- Section Separator --- Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Funerals, tangihanga and burials are allowed at Alert Level 3, but are limited to 10 people or under. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Up to 10 people in the same bubble may go to view the tūpapaku, the person who has died, by appointment with the funeral director. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in groups of up to 10 from the same bubble. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to maintain physical distance. They can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. No food or drink can be served, and physical distancing should be maintained between people. If you're attending a funeral or tangihanga we recommend still keeping 2 metres apart from people not in your bubble. You’re strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while maintaining a physical distance from people not in your bubble. The general guidance for avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. At Alert Level 3 there are strict restrictions in place for travel between regions. This is necessary to reduce the spread of COVID-19. If you need to travel into or out of a region at Alert Level 3 for a funeral or tangihanga you will need to apply for an exemption. Regional travel --- Section Separator --- Education Keep track of where you've been Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Sports and recreation Shopping and services Shared custody and childcare Life at home Signs and posters for businesses or venues
Home Activities Life at home Renters, landlords, and homeowners --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 you can move house. Travelling into and out of regions at different Alert Levels to move house is allowed, but there are restrictions. If you do move, you legally must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, we recommend signing tenancy agreements digitally, and we recommend moving house without any contact with other people. Regional travel You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but we recommend they maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like washing their hands and cleaning surfaces. You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend you delay settlement until after the Alert Level is at 2 or less. You can look for properties to buy, but we recommend doing this without face-to-face contact with real estate agents, owners or existing tenants. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 you can move house. Travelling into and out of regions at different Alert Levels to move house is allowed, but there are restrictions. If you do move, you legally must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, we recommend signing tenancy agreements digitally, and we recommend moving house without any contact with other people. Regional travel You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but we recommend they maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like washing their hands and cleaning surfaces. --- Section Separator --- You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend you delay settlement until after the Alert Level is at 2 or less. You can look for properties to buy, but we recommend doing this without face-to-face contact with real estate agents, owners or existing tenants. --- Section Separator --- Renters, landlords, and homeowners If you need help with accommodation
Home Activities Meeting friends and whānau --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people you can invite to your home or gather with in a public place. You can travel to meet friends and whānau in another town or city. You can do your part to keep you, your whānau and friends safe and reduce the chances of spreading COVID-19. We encourage you to: keep a record of the friends and whānau you visit. not visit or invite others to your home if you or someone in your household is feeling unwell. regularly wash your hands often with soap and water before and after you leave home. take the vaccine when you are offered it, and encourage friends and whānau to get vaccinated. At Alert Level 1, you can visit your friends and whānau in a rest home or care facility. There are no restrictions on the number of visitors, and visitors do not have to be from the same household bubble. Please do not visit a care facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. At Alert Level 2, you can get together with friends and whānau but gatherings are limited to 100 people. This includes people who usually live in your house. Social gatherings include: having guests over to your home family events weddings funerals and tangihanga faith-based services and places of worship community club and sport activities celebration events like birthday parties or stag dos. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the 100 person limit. Funeral and tangihanga requirements Advice for religious communities At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to visit friends or whānau or attend a social gathering. If the gathering is in an Alert Level 2 region, the 100 person limit applies. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot physically distance, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to keep up good health behaviours to keep you, your whānau, and your community safe. The person organising the gathering legally must: make sure there are less than 100 people attending record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen. You do not need to do this if everyone at the gathering knows each other. If attendees do not all know each other, everyone attending legally must sign in using the NZ COVID-Tracer app or provide their details in a contact tracing register. If you have hired a venue for a gathering, you still need to follow the 100 person limit. If you are meeting friends or whānau at a cafe or restaurant, you will need to follow the establishment's safety measures. At Alert Level 2, you can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. You may have to complete a health check before you visit, and visiting hours may be limited. Facilities may also limit the number of visitors. Please check with the facility or rest home before you visit. When visiting a rest home or care facility, remember to scan in using the NZ Covid Tracer App, wash or sanitise your hands, and wear a face covering if needed. At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay in your household bubble. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family to your home. You can extend your household bubble to 2 or more homes to bring in close whānau, caregivers, or people who live alone or may be isolated. Everyone who is over 18 needs to agree to the extended bubble. Keep your extended bubble close and small. If you have an extended bubble arrangement you can invite those people to your home. It’s important to protect your bubble if you extend it. If anyone in your bubble feels unwell, they should self-isolate from everyone else within your bubble. Even if you or people in your bubble have been vaccinated, it's important to self-isolate and call Healthline or your GP for advice. You can get married, or attend a wedding or funeral or tangihanga. Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga are limited to 10 people. Keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with. Avoid close physical contact such as hugging, hongi or harirū. Keep track of where you have been. The person organising the wedding, funeral or tangihanga legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. Do not attend a wedding, funeral or tangihanga if you are feeling unwell. Stay home and call your Healthline or your GP for advice. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Advice for religious communities at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, you will not be able to visit friends and whānau living in a rest home or aged care facility. We encourage you to connect with them virtually. You can apply for an exemption to visit whānau on compassionate grounds, such as visiting those whānau who are in palliative care. You'll need to talk to the healthcare provider about an exemption. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people you can invite to your home or gather with in a public place. You can travel to meet friends and whānau in another town or city. You can do your part to keep you, your whānau and friends safe and reduce the chances of spreading COVID-19. We encourage you to: keep a record of the friends and whānau you visit. not visit or invite others to your home if you or someone in your household is feeling unwell. regularly wash your hands often with soap and water before and after you leave home. take the vaccine when you are offered it, and encourage friends and whānau to get vaccinated. At Alert Level 1, you can visit your friends and whānau in a rest home or care facility. There are no restrictions on the number of visitors, and visitors do not have to be from the same household bubble. Please do not visit a care facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can get together with friends and whānau but gatherings are limited to 100 people. This includes people who usually live in your house. Social gatherings include: having guests over to your home family events weddings funerals and tangihanga faith-based services and places of worship community club and sport activities celebration events like birthday parties or stag dos. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the 100 person limit. Funeral and tangihanga requirements Advice for religious communities At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to visit friends or whānau or attend a social gathering. If the gathering is in an Alert Level 2 region, the 100 person limit applies. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot physically distance, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to keep up good health behaviours to keep you, your whānau, and your community safe. The person organising the gathering legally must: make sure there are less than 100 people attending record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen. You do not need to do this if everyone at the gathering knows each other. If attendees do not all know each other, everyone attending legally must sign in using the NZ COVID-Tracer app or provide their details in a contact tracing register. If you have hired a venue for a gathering, you still need to follow the 100 person limit. If you are meeting friends or whānau at a cafe or restaurant, you will need to follow the establishment's safety measures. At Alert Level 2, you can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. You may have to complete a health check before you visit, and visiting hours may be limited. Facilities may also limit the number of visitors. Please check with the facility or rest home before you visit. When visiting a rest home or care facility, remember to scan in using the NZ Covid Tracer App, wash or sanitise your hands, and wear a face covering if needed. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay in your household bubble. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family to your home. You can extend your household bubble to 2 or more homes to bring in close whānau, caregivers, or people who live alone or may be isolated. Everyone who is over 18 needs to agree to the extended bubble. Keep your extended bubble close and small. If you have an extended bubble arrangement you can invite those people to your home. It’s important to protect your bubble if you extend it. If anyone in your bubble feels unwell, they should self-isolate from everyone else within your bubble. Even if you or people in your bubble have been vaccinated, it's important to self-isolate and call Healthline or your GP for advice. You can get married, or attend a wedding or funeral or tangihanga. Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga are limited to 10 people. Keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with. Avoid close physical contact such as hugging, hongi or harirū. Keep track of where you have been. The person organising the wedding, funeral or tangihanga legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. Do not attend a wedding, funeral or tangihanga if you are feeling unwell. Stay home and call your Healthline or your GP for advice. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Advice for religious communities at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, you will not be able to visit friends and whānau living in a rest home or aged care facility. We encourage you to connect with them virtually. You can apply for an exemption to visit whānau on compassionate grounds, such as visiting those whānau who are in palliative care. You'll need to talk to the healthcare provider about an exemption. --- Section Separator --- Education Keep track of where you've been Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Sports and recreation Shopping and services Shared custody and childcare Life at home Signs and posters for businesses or venues
Home Activities Moving, buying and selling your home --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can move house, sell your home, go to open homes and auctions and carry out maintenance and inspections on a property. There are no restrictions on travel. To keep yo u, your whānau and community safe, we encourage you to: stay home and get tested if you feel unwell keep a record of the people you see and the properties you visit wash or sanitise your hands before and after you leave home. If you're a property manager or landlord, you should not visit your tenant's home if they are sick or are self-isolating. At Alert Level 2, you can move house, including between different Alert Level areas.  If you're moving to an area with the same Alert Level settings, you can: ask your friends or whānau to help you move use a moving company. Movers will need to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep a record of where they have been to help with contact tracing. If anyone is unwell or has symptoms of COVID-19, they should stay home and get tested. You can move house from an Alert Level 2 to an Alert Level 3 region. You legally must carry documents with you to show that you're moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. If you want to use a moving company, they will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) to travel in and out of the Alert Level 3 region. At Alert Level 2, you can hold and go to open homes, auctions and private viewings. You can travel to another region that is in Alert Level 1 or 2 to view a property. Open homes, auctions and viewings are limited to 100 people. If you go to an open home, try to keep at least 2 metres away from people you do not know. The agent organising the open home may limit numbers to help with physical distancing. Open homes legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code. Remember to sign in wherever you go, or record your details on the contact tracing register. Do not go to an open home if you're feeling unwell. At Alert Level 2, property inspectors, property valuers, engineers tradespeople and cleaners can visit your home. If you're a landlord, make sure you get your tenant's consent first. Anyone inspecting or carrying out maintenance on a property needs to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. If you visit someone else's home, keep a record of where you went, and who you came into contact with. Try to limit the number of people visiting your property at the same time to help with physical distancing. We recommend keeping a record of the people who visit your home to help with contact tracing. People should not visit your property if you or any of the occupants are unwell or are self-isolating. To help prevent the spread of COVID-19, body corporates should: Close all communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools and other communal gathering areas. Regularly clean and disinfect common areas such as door handles, lift buttons and stair rails. Place hand sanitisers at all building entrances. If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) (external link) At Alert Level 3 you can move house, including to and from a region that is at Alert Level 1 or Alert Level 2. If you're moving to a region which is in a different Alert Level, you legally must carry documents with you to show that you're moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You can use a moving company if you're moving to a region that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. The movers will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) to travel in and out of the Alert Level 3 region. You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend you delay settlement until Alert Levels 1 or 2. Open homes and auctions cannot take place in person, but they can happen remotely. You cannot travel to other regions to view a property. You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. However, we recommend you limit this to urgent repairs. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but they need to keep 2 metres away at all times. We recommend you move to a different room while they are working. Do not invite people to your home for maintenance if you are anyone in your household is unwell. If you're a landlord, we recommend you do not carry out any property inspections. You can do virtual inspections if the tenant agrees. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can move house, sell your home, go to open homes and auctions and carry out maintenance and inspections on a property. There are no restrictions on travel. To keep yo u, your whānau and community safe, we encourage you to: stay home and get tested if you feel unwell keep a record of the people you see and the properties you visit wash or sanitise your hands before and after you leave home. If you're a property manager or landlord, you should not visit your tenant's home if they are sick or are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can move house, including between different Alert Level areas.  If you're moving to an area with the same Alert Level settings, you can: ask your friends or whānau to help you move use a moving company. Movers will need to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep a record of where they have been to help with contact tracing. If anyone is unwell or has symptoms of COVID-19, they should stay home and get tested. You can move house from an Alert Level 2 to an Alert Level 3 region. You legally must carry documents with you to show that you're moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. If you want to use a moving company, they will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) to travel in and out of the Alert Level 3 region. At Alert Level 2, you can hold and go to open homes, auctions and private viewings. You can travel to another region that is in Alert Level 1 or 2 to view a property. Open homes, auctions and viewings are limited to 100 people. If you go to an open home, try to keep at least 2 metres away from people you do not know. The agent organising the open home may limit numbers to help with physical distancing. Open homes legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code. Remember to sign in wherever you go, or record your details on the contact tracing register. Do not go to an open home if you're feeling unwell. At Alert Level 2, property inspectors, property valuers, engineers tradespeople and cleaners can visit your home. If you're a landlord, make sure you get your tenant's consent first. Anyone inspecting or carrying out maintenance on a property needs to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. If you visit someone else's home, keep a record of where you went, and who you came into contact with. Try to limit the number of people visiting your property at the same time to help with physical distancing. We recommend keeping a record of the people who visit your home to help with contact tracing. People should not visit your property if you or any of the occupants are unwell or are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- To help prevent the spread of COVID-19, body corporates should: Close all communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools and other communal gathering areas. Regularly clean and disinfect common areas such as door handles, lift buttons and stair rails. Place hand sanitisers at all building entrances. If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 you can move house, including to and from a region that is at Alert Level 1 or Alert Level 2. If you're moving to a region which is in a different Alert Level, you legally must carry documents with you to show that you're moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You can use a moving company if you're moving to a region that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. The movers will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) to travel in and out of the Alert Level 3 region. You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend you delay settlement until Alert Levels 1 or 2. Open homes and auctions cannot take place in person, but they can happen remotely. You cannot travel to other regions to view a property. You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. However, we recommend you limit this to urgent repairs. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but they need to keep 2 metres away at all times. We recommend you move to a different room while they are working. Do not invite people to your home for maintenance if you are anyone in your household is unwell. If you're a landlord, we recommend you do not carry out any property inspections. You can do virtual inspections if the tenant agrees. --- Section Separator --- Education Keep track of where you've been Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Sports and recreation Shopping and services Shared custody and childcare Moving, buying and selling your home Signs and posters for businesses or venues
Home Activities Public events and entertainment --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people who can attend a large event or gathering. You can hold events both indoors and outdoors. All public facilities such as libraries, museums and cinemas can open. You can travel to attend events in another town or city. You can continue to attend events and gatherings after you have been vaccinated. You can do your part to keep you, your whānau and friends safe and reduce the chances of spreading COVID-19. We encourage you to: use the NZ COVID Tracer App to keep track of where you have been and turn on Bluetooth tracing stay home if you are feeling unwell wash your hands often with soap and water before and after you leave home. If you have been vaccinated, we encourage you to keep up good health behaviours such as washing your hands and signing in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. All event organisers legally must display a QR code poster to help people keep track of where they have been. If an event is either indoors or outdoors and in one defined space, you can use one QR code for the event. If the event is spread out across sites, we recommend having separate QR codes for each business or exhibit. You should also use an event QR code at entrances to help people sign in. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 2, events can go ahead but with restrictions. Events can only have a maximum of 100 people in any defined space. Workers providing services to the event are not included in the 100 person limit. If you're providing food and drinks at an event, everyone must be seated to be served. All event facilities need to assess how many people can be safely inside their venue while keeping 1 metre apart. This may mean that some venues and events may allow less than 100 people to attend. If you go to an event, you legally must keep 1 metre apart from people you do not know. We recommend wearing a face covering if physical distancing is difficult. Event organisers and venues such as cinemas may alternate occupied seats with vacant seats to support you to physically distance. Please follow the venue's safety measures and stay in your allocated seat. Even if you have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to keep 1 metre apart from others, sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and stay home if you're sick. At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a concert, conference, sports game or any other public event. If the event is in an Alert Level 2 region, the 100 person limit applies. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Event organisers legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code, and have an alternate contact tracing system. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined spaces. This includes when entering, leaving, or going to the bathroom. It does not include workers. At Alert Level 2, public facilities such as libraries, swimming pools, cinemas and museums can open. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people can be inside. Some facilities may choose to limit the number of visitors to meet physical distancing requirements. Please follow the instructions of the facility you go to, and be prepared to queue. If you go to a public facility: you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know. We recommend wearing a face covering if you are in a space where physical distancing is difficult sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app wash or sanitise your hands after using shared equipment. If you are feeling unwell, stay home and call Healthline or your GP for advice. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still stay home if you are feeling unwell. Staying home will help protect you, your whānau, friends and community. At Alert Level 3, we all need to stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. All entertainment venues legally must close. The only gatherings allowed at Alert Level 3 are weddings , funerals and tangihanga, up to a maximum of 10 people. All public facilities and attractions such as museums, cinemas, libraries and swimming pools must close. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 3 Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people who can attend a large event or gathering. You can hold events both indoors and outdoors. All public facilities such as libraries, museums and cinemas can open. You can travel to attend events in another town or city. You can continue to attend events and gatherings after you have been vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- You can do your part to keep you, your whānau and friends safe and reduce the chances of spreading COVID-19. We encourage you to: use the NZ COVID Tracer App to keep track of where you have been and turn on Bluetooth tracing stay home if you are feeling unwell wash your hands often with soap and water before and after you leave home. If you have been vaccinated, we encourage you to keep up good health behaviours such as washing your hands and signing in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. All event organisers legally must display a QR code poster to help people keep track of where they have been. If an event is either indoors or outdoors and in one defined space, you can use one QR code for the event. If the event is spread out across sites, we recommend having separate QR codes for each business or exhibit. You should also use an event QR code at entrances to help people sign in. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, events can go ahead but with restrictions. Events can only have a maximum of 100 people in any defined space. Workers providing services to the event are not included in the 100 person limit. If you're providing food and drinks at an event, everyone must be seated to be served. All event facilities need to assess how many people can be safely inside their venue while keeping 1 metre apart. This may mean that some venues and events may allow less than 100 people to attend. If you go to an event, you legally must keep 1 metre apart from people you do not know. We recommend wearing a face covering if physical distancing is difficult. Event organisers and venues such as cinemas may alternate occupied seats with vacant seats to support you to physically distance. Please follow the venue's safety measures and stay in your allocated seat. Even if you have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to keep 1 metre apart from others, sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and stay home if you're sick. At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a concert, conference, sports game or any other public event. If the event is in an Alert Level 2 region, the 100 person limit applies. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Event organisers legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code, and have an alternate contact tracing system. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined spaces. This includes when entering, leaving, or going to the bathroom. It does not include workers. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, public facilities such as libraries, swimming pools, cinemas and museums can open. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people can be inside. Some facilities may choose to limit the number of visitors to meet physical distancing requirements. Please follow the instructions of the facility you go to, and be prepared to queue. If you go to a public facility: you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know. We recommend wearing a face covering if you are in a space where physical distancing is difficult sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app wash or sanitise your hands after using shared equipment. If you are feeling unwell, stay home and call Healthline or your GP for advice. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still stay home if you are feeling unwell. Staying home will help protect you, your whānau, friends and community. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, we all need to stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. All entertainment venues legally must close. The only gatherings allowed at Alert Level 3 are weddings , funerals and tangihanga, up to a maximum of 10 people. All public facilities and attractions such as museums, cinemas, libraries and swimming pools must close. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Education Keep track of where you've been Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Sports and recreation Shopping and services Shared custody and childcare Life at home Signs and posters for businesses or venues
Home Activities Shopping and services --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all shops and services can operate as normal. Do not shop if you are sick, have COVID-19 symptoms, or have been to self-isolate. All supermarkets, retail stores and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. Remember to scan in and have Bluetooth tracing turned on. You can access essential services throughout all Alert Levels. This can be in person, through friends and whānau or getting deliveries to your home. Essential services include food, healthcare, rubbish and recycling collection,  veterinary services, internet, fuel, energy and financial support. Close contact personal care services can operate at Alert Levels 1 and 2. Personal services include services like: hairdressers spa and massage services beauty therapy tattoo and piercing services A cleaner can come into your home at Alert Levels 1 and 2. You can get a tradesperson to come into your home for repairs at Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3. Anyone entering your home will need to follow the rules for the current Alert Level. At Alert Level 2, all shops and services can operate but with extra safety measures. Remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. You can go in-store to shop but you will need to keep 2 metres apart from people you do not know. Retail stores and supermarkets may limit the number of people allowed on their premises to help with physical distancing. If physical distancing is difficult, we recommend wearing a face covering. Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19, or have been told to self-isolate. Hairdressers, barbers and businesses providing personal care services, such as massage or beauty treatments can open but with restrictions. Workers providing these services legally must keep 1 metre apart from each other and their clients, except for when close physical contact is needed to provide the service. We recommend workers wear a face covering when physical distancing is not possible, and if it's practical to do so. Businesses will also need to make sure they maintain good hygiene practices, and regularly clean and disinfect shared equipment and surfaces. Businesses can continue to provide beauty and personal care services in people's homes. If the person providing the service is unwell, they should not come into your home. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know, for example in waiting areas. If you're sick or feeling unwell, please call and reschedule your appointment. At Alert Level 2, you can get a cleaner or tradesperson to come into your home. You will need to keep 2 metres away from them at all times, so try to move to a different room while they are working. Try to minimise physical contact by paying for the service online. At Alert Level 3, supermarkets, dairies, butchers, bakeries, fishmongers, greengrocers, petrol stations and pharmacies can open and have customers on their premises. You can go in-store to shop, but you will need keep 2 metres apart from people outside your household. This means some smaller stores like dairies may have a "one - in, one - out" policy. All other retail stores can only open for contactless pick-up and delivery. At Alert Level 3, businesses offering close contact personal care services cannot open. Veterinary services can open. If you’re self-isolating, you legally must phone your veterinarian before you visit them or they visit you. If you're sick, call and reschedule. Businesses offering pet care services such as dog walking or dog grooming can operate but cannot have customers on site. Arrange to drop off and pick up your pet in a contactless way. Plumbers, electricians, and tradespeople can come into your home for repairs. They will need to follow public health guidelines. Home based cleaners cannot work. If you're sick, or cannot leave home to buy food or essential supplies, you can ask friends, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries for you. Contact your local supermarket or dairy to find out if they are delivering groceries and how to order. Your supermarket may have reserved some priority slots for people who need to use online shopping. You can also use your supermarket's click and collect service, and ask a friend, family member or neighbour to drop off the groceries for you. If you get your groceries delivered, wash and sanitise your hands after you have put your groceries away. If you need financial help to buy food, your local food bank may be able to help you. Find food banks and other food assistance services across New Zealand (external link) You may be able to get help through Work and Income. You do not need to be on a benefit to get help. Work and Income can help with paying for food, accommodation costs, power and gas bills, heating and medical or dental costs. Call 0800 559 009 Use the online calculator to check what you might get (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all shops and services can operate as normal. Do not shop if you are sick, have COVID-19 symptoms, or have been to self-isolate. All supermarkets, retail stores and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. Remember to scan in and have Bluetooth tracing turned on. You can access essential services throughout all Alert Levels. This can be in person, through friends and whānau or getting deliveries to your home. Essential services include food, healthcare, rubbish and recycling collection,  veterinary services, internet, fuel, energy and financial support. Close contact personal care services can operate at Alert Levels 1 and 2. Personal services include services like: hairdressers spa and massage services beauty therapy tattoo and piercing services A cleaner can come into your home at Alert Levels 1 and 2. You can get a tradesperson to come into your home for repairs at Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3. Anyone entering your home will need to follow the rules for the current Alert Level. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, all shops and services can operate but with extra safety measures. Remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. You can go in-store to shop but you will need to keep 2 metres apart from people you do not know. Retail stores and supermarkets may limit the number of people allowed on their premises to help with physical distancing. If physical distancing is difficult, we recommend wearing a face covering. Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19, or have been told to self-isolate. Hairdressers, barbers and businesses providing personal care services, such as massage or beauty treatments can open but with restrictions. Workers providing these services legally must keep 1 metre apart from each other and their clients, except for when close physical contact is needed to provide the service. We recommend workers wear a face covering when physical distancing is not possible, and if it's practical to do so. Businesses will also need to make sure they maintain good hygiene practices, and regularly clean and disinfect shared equipment and surfaces. Businesses can continue to provide beauty and personal care services in people's homes. If the person providing the service is unwell, they should not come into your home. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know, for example in waiting areas. If you're sick or feeling unwell, please call and reschedule your appointment. At Alert Level 2, you can get a cleaner or tradesperson to come into your home. You will need to keep 2 metres away from them at all times, so try to move to a different room while they are working. Try to minimise physical contact by paying for the service online. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, supermarkets, dairies, butchers, bakeries, fishmongers, greengrocers, petrol stations and pharmacies can open and have customers on their premises. You can go in-store to shop, but you will need keep 2 metres apart from people outside your household. This means some smaller stores like dairies may have a "one - in, one - out" policy. All other retail stores can only open for contactless pick-up and delivery. At Alert Level 3, businesses offering close contact personal care services cannot open. Veterinary services can open. If you’re self-isolating, you legally must phone your veterinarian before you visit them or they visit you. If you're sick, call and reschedule. Businesses offering pet care services such as dog walking or dog grooming can operate but cannot have customers on site. Arrange to drop off and pick up your pet in a contactless way. Plumbers, electricians, and tradespeople can come into your home for repairs. They will need to follow public health guidelines. Home based cleaners cannot work. --- Section Separator --- If you're sick, or cannot leave home to buy food or essential supplies, you can ask friends, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries for you. Contact your local supermarket or dairy to find out if they are delivering groceries and how to order. Your supermarket may have reserved some priority slots for people who need to use online shopping. You can also use your supermarket's click and collect service, and ask a friend, family member or neighbour to drop off the groceries for you. If you get your groceries delivered, wash and sanitise your hands after you have put your groceries away. --- Section Separator --- If you need financial help to buy food, your local food bank may be able to help you. Find food banks and other food assistance services across New Zealand (external link) You may be able to get help through Work and Income. You do not need to be on a benefit to get help. Work and Income can help with paying for food, accommodation costs, power and gas bills, heating and medical or dental costs. Call 0800 559 009 Use the online calculator to check what you might get (external link) --- Section Separator --- Education Keep track of where you've been Meeting friends and whānau Public events and entertainment Funerals and tangihanga Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Sports and recreation Shopping and services Shared custody and childcare Life at home Signs and posters for businesses or venues
Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. Alert Level 2 information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings. Alert Level 3 information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings. Information about what measures could be taken at Alert Level 4. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Information about our Alert Level system, and summaries of the measures that may be applied at each Alert Level. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Our plan to manage any potential COVID-19 resurgence over summer. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Find out how you can access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister responsible for the COVID-19 response has established two Independent Advisory Groups. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. --- Section Separator --- Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. Alert Level 2 information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings. Alert Level 3 information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings. Information about what measures could be taken at Alert Level 4. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Information about our Alert Level system, and summaries of the measures that may be applied at each Alert Level. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Our plan to manage any potential COVID-19 resurgence over summer. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Find out how you can access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister responsible for the COVID-19 response has established two Independent Advisory Groups. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act.
Home Alert Levels and updates About the Alert System --- Section Separator --- The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The measures may be updated on the basis of: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of intervention measures in New Zealand and elsewhere. The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency Likely the disease is not contained. Sustained and intensive community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks. People instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings cancelled and all public venues closed. Businesses closed except for essential services. For example, supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities. Educational facilities closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. High risk the disease is not contained. Multiple cases of community transmission occurring. Multiple active clusters in multiple regions. People instructed to stay home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement — including to go to work, school if they have to, or for local recreation. Physical distancing of 2 metres outside home, or 1 metre in controlled environments like schools and workplaces. People must stay within their immediate household bubble, but can expand this to connect with close family/whānau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. This extended bubble should remain exclusive. Schools (years 1 to 10) and Early Childhood Education centres can safely open, but will have limited capacity. Children should learn at home if possible. People must work from home unless that is not possible. Businesses cannot offer services that involve close personal contact, unless it is a supermarket, primary produce retailer, pharmacy, petrol station or hardware store providing goods to trade customers, or it is an emergency or critical situation. Other businesses can open premises, but cannot physically interact with customers. Low risk local recreation activities are allowed. Public venues are closed. For example, libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds, markets. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed but only for wedding services, funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Healthcare services use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. Inter-regional travel is highly limited. For example, for critical workers, with limited exemptions for others. People at high risk of severe illness, such as older people and those with existing medical conditions, are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. They may choose to work. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Limited community transmission could be occurring. Active clusters in more than 1 region. People can connect with friends and family, and socialise in groups of up to 100, go shopping, or travel domestically, if following public health guidance. Keep physical distancing of 2 metres from people you do not know when out in public or in retail stores. Keep 1 metre physical distancing in controlled environments like workplaces, where practicable. No more than 100 people at gatherings, including weddings, birthdays and funerals and tangihanga. Businesses can open to the public if following public health guidance including physical distancing and record keeping. Alternative ways of working encouraged where possible. Hospitality businesses legally must keep groups of customers separated, seated, and served by a single person. Maximum of 100 people at a time. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, record keeping, and physical distancing where practical. Public venues such as museums, libraries and pools can open if they comply with public health measures and ensure 1 metre physical distancing and record keeping. Event facilities, including cinemas, stadiums, concert venues and casinos can have more than 100 people at a time, provided that there are no more than 100 in a defined space, and the groups do not mix. Health and disability care services operate as normally as possible. It is safe to send your children to schools, early learning services and tertiary education. There will be appropriate measures in place. People at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19, such as those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and seniors, are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. They may work, if they agree with their employer that they can do so safely. Face coverings required on public transport and aircraft, but not inter-island ferries. School buses and children under 12 are exempt along with passengers in taxis or rideshare services and people with disabilities or mental health conditions. Detailed information about Alert Level 2 The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. Sporadic imported cases. Isolated local transmission could be occurring in New Zealand. Border entry measures to minimise risk of importing COVID-19 cases. Intensive testing for COVID-19. Rapid contact tracing of any positive case. Self-isolation and quarantine required. Schools and workplaces open, and legally must operate safely. No restrictions on personal movement but people are encouraged to maintain a record of where they have been. No restrictions on gatherings but organisers encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. Stay home if you’re sick, report flu-like symptoms. Wash and dry hands, cough into elbow, do not touch your face. No restrictions on domestic transport — avoid public transport or travel if sick. No restrictions on workplaces or services but they are encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport to enable use of the NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Detailed information about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The measures may be updated on the basis of: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of intervention measures in New Zealand and elsewhere. The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency --- Section Separator --- Likely the disease is not contained. Sustained and intensive community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks. People instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings cancelled and all public venues closed. Businesses closed except for essential services. For example, supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities. Educational facilities closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. --- Section Separator --- High risk the disease is not contained. Multiple cases of community transmission occurring. Multiple active clusters in multiple regions. People instructed to stay home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement — including to go to work, school if they have to, or for local recreation. Physical distancing of 2 metres outside home, or 1 metre in controlled environments like schools and workplaces. People must stay within their immediate household bubble, but can expand this to connect with close family/whānau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. This extended bubble should remain exclusive. Schools (years 1 to 10) and Early Childhood Education centres can safely open, but will have limited capacity. Children should learn at home if possible. People must work from home unless that is not possible. Businesses cannot offer services that involve close personal contact, unless it is a supermarket, primary produce retailer, pharmacy, petrol station or hardware store providing goods to trade customers, or it is an emergency or critical situation. Other businesses can open premises, but cannot physically interact with customers. Low risk local recreation activities are allowed. Public venues are closed. For example, libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds, markets. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed but only for wedding services, funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Healthcare services use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. Inter-regional travel is highly limited. For example, for critical workers, with limited exemptions for others. People at high risk of severe illness, such as older people and those with existing medical conditions, are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. They may choose to work. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Limited community transmission could be occurring. Active clusters in more than 1 region. People can connect with friends and family, and socialise in groups of up to 100, go shopping, or travel domestically, if following public health guidance. Keep physical distancing of 2 metres from people you do not know when out in public or in retail stores. Keep 1 metre physical distancing in controlled environments like workplaces, where practicable. No more than 100 people at gatherings, including weddings, birthdays and funerals and tangihanga. Businesses can open to the public if following public health guidance including physical distancing and record keeping. Alternative ways of working encouraged where possible. Hospitality businesses legally must keep groups of customers separated, seated, and served by a single person. Maximum of 100 people at a time. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, record keeping, and physical distancing where practical. Public venues such as museums, libraries and pools can open if they comply with public health measures and ensure 1 metre physical distancing and record keeping. Event facilities, including cinemas, stadiums, concert venues and casinos can have more than 100 people at a time, provided that there are no more than 100 in a defined space, and the groups do not mix. Health and disability care services operate as normally as possible. It is safe to send your children to schools, early learning services and tertiary education. There will be appropriate measures in place. People at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19, such as those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and seniors, are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. They may work, if they agree with their employer that they can do so safely. Face coverings required on public transport and aircraft, but not inter-island ferries. School buses and children under 12 are exempt along with passengers in taxis or rideshare services and people with disabilities or mental health conditions. Detailed information about Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. Sporadic imported cases. Isolated local transmission could be occurring in New Zealand. Border entry measures to minimise risk of importing COVID-19 cases. Intensive testing for COVID-19. Rapid contact tracing of any positive case. Self-isolation and quarantine required. Schools and workplaces open, and legally must operate safely. No restrictions on personal movement but people are encouraged to maintain a record of where they have been. No restrictions on gatherings but organisers encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. Stay home if you’re sick, report flu-like symptoms. Wash and dry hands, cough into elbow, do not touch your face. No restrictions on domestic transport — avoid public transport or travel if sick. No restrictions on workplaces or services but they are encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport to enable use of the NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Detailed information about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan COVID-19 data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases
Home Alert Levels and updates Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for almost all arrivals, and managed isolation or quarantine for anyone who is not travelling quarantine-free. Travel to New Zealand Staying at home if you’re sick is especially important at Alert Level 1. The risk of COVID-19 being spread in the community is much greater when there are no restrictions on gatherings or going out. Stay home if you’re sick If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to see if you need a test. COVID-19 symptoms Getting a COVID-19 test Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings Keep up good handwashing practices, using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying thoroughly. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep surfaces clean. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. We encourage you to continue tracking where you’ve been and who you’ve seen to help with contact tracing, if required. You can use the NZ COVID Tracer app on public transport, in workplaces and when visiting businesses and shops. You can also add manual entries for places that do not have a QR code poster. How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Alternatively, you can keep your own diary with details of places you’ve visited, the time you were there and who you were with. How to keep track of where you’ve been Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster to help customers to keep track of where they’ve been. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, but it’s still worthwhile to keep a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for almost all arrivals, and managed isolation or quarantine for anyone who is not travelling quarantine-free. Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you’re sick is especially important at Alert Level 1. The risk of COVID-19 being spread in the community is much greater when there are no restrictions on gatherings or going out. Stay home if you’re sick If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to see if you need a test. COVID-19 symptoms Getting a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings --- Section Separator --- Keep up good handwashing practices, using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying thoroughly. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep surfaces clean. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. We encourage you to continue tracking where you’ve been and who you’ve seen to help with contact tracing, if required. You can use the NZ COVID Tracer app on public transport, in workplaces and when visiting businesses and shops. You can also add manual entries for places that do not have a QR code poster. How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Alternatively, you can keep your own diary with details of places you’ve visited, the time you were there and who you were with. How to keep track of where you’ve been Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster to help customers to keep track of where they’ve been. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, but it’s still worthwhile to keep a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. --- Section Separator --- If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan COVID-19 data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases
Home Alert Levels and updates Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can go to work and school, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms — tests are free COVID-19 symptoms At Alert Level 2 there may be some situations where you need to self-isolate or go into a quarantine facility. Who needs to self-isolate or quarantine, and how testing works It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses are legally required to display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. They legally must also have an alternative contact tracing system. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster At Alert Level 2, you can leave home, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep a distance of at least: 2 metres in public and in retail stores, like supermarkets and clothes shops 1 metre in most other places like workplaces, cafes, restaurants and gyms. Maintaining physical distancing At Alert Level 2 the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You: legally must wear a face covering on public transport and on domestic flights are encouraged to wear face coverings in situations where physical distancing is not possible, like in shops. Who needs to wear face coverings You can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You should not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Travelling on public transport at Alert Level 2 Travelling in private vehicles at Alert Level 2 You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 2 or lower. Regional travel No more than 100 people at social gatherings, including weddings, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. There are specific restrictions at Alert Level 2 depending on the type of gathering: Gatherings, event facilities and public facilities Eating out at bars, restaurants and cafes Funerals and tangihanga Religious communities You can do your usual exercise and recreation activities, if you can do them safely. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. How to exercise safely at Alert Level 2 Gatherings, events and public facilities Businesses can open, but they legally must follow public health rules. These include physical distancing and record keeping. How to do business at Alert Level 2 Reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Talk with your staff to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. Face coverings are strongly encouraged if you are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. Get free COVID-19 resources If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 All early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open. All tamariki (children) should continue to attend school unless they are sick. There are some restrictions if a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 is found related to an educational facility. Education at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can go to work and school, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms — tests are free COVID-19 symptoms At Alert Level 2 there may be some situations where you need to self-isolate or go into a quarantine facility. Who needs to self-isolate or quarantine, and how testing works It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses are legally required to display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. They legally must also have an alternative contact tracing system. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can leave home, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep a distance of at least: 2 metres in public and in retail stores, like supermarkets and clothes shops 1 metre in most other places like workplaces, cafes, restaurants and gyms. Maintaining physical distancing At Alert Level 2 the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You: legally must wear a face covering on public transport and on domestic flights are encouraged to wear face coverings in situations where physical distancing is not possible, like in shops. Who needs to wear face coverings You can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You should not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Travelling on public transport at Alert Level 2 Travelling in private vehicles at Alert Level 2 You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 2 or lower. Regional travel --- Section Separator --- No more than 100 people at social gatherings, including weddings, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. There are specific restrictions at Alert Level 2 depending on the type of gathering: Gatherings, event facilities and public facilities Eating out at bars, restaurants and cafes Funerals and tangihanga Religious communities --- Section Separator --- You can do your usual exercise and recreation activities, if you can do them safely. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. How to exercise safely at Alert Level 2 Gatherings, events and public facilities --- Section Separator --- Businesses can open, but they legally must follow public health rules. These include physical distancing and record keeping. How to do business at Alert Level 2 Reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Talk with your staff to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. Face coverings are strongly encouraged if you are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. Get free COVID-19 resources --- Section Separator --- If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- All early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open. All tamariki (children) should continue to attend school unless they are sick. There are some restrictions if a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 is found related to an educational facility. Education at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan COVID-19 data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases
Home Alert Levels and updates Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you can to avoid any risk of spread. You must work from home unless you're not able to. Children and young people should learn from home. If you’re sick, stay home. Don’t go to work or school. Don’t socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms — tests are free COVID-19 symptoms If you get a COVID-19 test, your medical professional will advise you on whether you need to self-isolate while awaiting the test result. You should always stay home if you are feeling unwell. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay within your household bubble whenever you're not at work or school. You can expand this to: connect with close family and whānau bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. It’s important to protect your bubble. Keep your bubble exclusive and only include people where it will keep you and them safe and healthy. If anyone within your bubble feels unwell, they legally must immediately self-isolate from everyone else within the bubble. Do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, extended family and whānau, to enter your home. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep a distance of at least: 2 metres in public and retail stores, like supermarkets 1 metre in controlled environments, like workplaces and schools. Maintaining physical distancing You: legally must wear a face covering on public transport and on domestic flights are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering in situations where physical distancing is more difficult, like in shops. Face covering advice and requirements You can travel within your local area, for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Public transport can continue to operate with strict health and safety requirements. Travelling on public transport at Alert Level 3 Travelling in private vehicles at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3 travel between regions is heavily restricted. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. Gatherings of up to 10 people can continue, but only for: wedding services funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Gatherings and events at Alert Level 3 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Religious communities at Alert Level 3 Public venues legally must close. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds and markets. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. You can do low-risk recreation activities in your local area. How to exercise and do recreational activities safely at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff working from home if they can. How to do business at Alert Level 3 If your business requires close physical contact it can’t operate. We recommend your staff work from home if they can. Businesses need to display a QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend making sure people either scan in or provide their contact details. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business legally must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Basic hygiene measures legally must be maintained. Physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Workers legally must stay home if they are sick. Staff legally must remain a minimum of 1 metre apart at all times where practical. Other measures, such as PPE including face coverings, we recommend being used where appropriate. Different advice applies to essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders and corrections staff. You can get further advice  from the Ministry of Health (external link) . You legally must meet all other health and safety obligations. Travel across Alert Level 2 and 3 areas is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. You may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. Get free COVID-19 resources If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 Children and young people should learn from home. Any child who does not have supervision at home from an appropriate person can attend their service or school. Education at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you can to avoid any risk of spread. You must work from home unless you're not able to. Children and young people should learn from home. If you’re sick, stay home. Don’t go to work or school. Don’t socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms — tests are free COVID-19 symptoms If you get a COVID-19 test, your medical professional will advise you on whether you need to self-isolate while awaiting the test result. You should always stay home if you are feeling unwell. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you legally must stay within your household bubble whenever you're not at work or school. You can expand this to: connect with close family and whānau bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. It’s important to protect your bubble. Keep your bubble exclusive and only include people where it will keep you and them safe and healthy. If anyone within your bubble feels unwell, they legally must immediately self-isolate from everyone else within the bubble. Do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, extended family and whānau, to enter your home. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep a distance of at least: 2 metres in public and retail stores, like supermarkets 1 metre in controlled environments, like workplaces and schools. Maintaining physical distancing You: legally must wear a face covering on public transport and on domestic flights are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering in situations where physical distancing is more difficult, like in shops. Face covering advice and requirements You can travel within your local area, for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Public transport can continue to operate with strict health and safety requirements. Travelling on public transport at Alert Level 3 Travelling in private vehicles at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3 travel between regions is heavily restricted. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings of up to 10 people can continue, but only for: wedding services funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Gatherings and events at Alert Level 3 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Religious communities at Alert Level 3 Public venues legally must close. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds and markets. --- Section Separator --- Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. You can do low-risk recreation activities in your local area. How to exercise and do recreational activities safely at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff working from home if they can. How to do business at Alert Level 3 If your business requires close physical contact it can’t operate. We recommend your staff work from home if they can. Businesses need to display a QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend making sure people either scan in or provide their contact details. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business legally must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Basic hygiene measures legally must be maintained. Physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Workers legally must stay home if they are sick. Staff legally must remain a minimum of 1 metre apart at all times where practical. Other measures, such as PPE including face coverings, we recommend being used where appropriate. Different advice applies to essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders and corrections staff. You can get further advice  from the Ministry of Health (external link) . You legally must meet all other health and safety obligations. Travel across Alert Level 2 and 3 areas is strictly limited to stop the spread of the virus. You may need to seek additional permission to complete travel across Alert Level areas. If there is an Alert Level 3 boundary, we will publish information on this website about which travel is permitted. You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. Get free COVID-19 resources --- Section Separator --- If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Children and young people should learn from home. Any child who does not have supervision at home from an appropriate person can attend their service or school. Education at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan COVID-19 data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases
Home Alert Levels and updates Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- New Zealand may go into Alert Level 4 if it is likely COVID-19 is not contained, there is sustained and intensive community transmission of cases, and there are widespread outbreaks. We are publishing this information about what could happen at Alert Level 4 so people and businesses can plan for any Alert Level change. At Alert Level 4, it is likely COVID-19 is not contained. Sustained and intensive community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks. People are instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings are cancelled and all public venues are closed. Businesses are closed except for essential services - for example, supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities will stay open. Educational facilities are closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities is possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency We have not repeated the same Alert Level 4 information as last year. This is because any possible future move into Alert Level 4 may look different. If you would like to read our old Alert Level 4 webpage, you can find archived versions of our site and navigate to it from there. You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives. Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand may go into Alert Level 4 if it is likely COVID-19 is not contained, there is sustained and intensive community transmission of cases, and there are widespread outbreaks. We are publishing this information about what could happen at Alert Level 4 so people and businesses can plan for any Alert Level change. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, it is likely COVID-19 is not contained. Sustained and intensive community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks. People are instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings are cancelled and all public venues are closed. Businesses are closed except for essential services - for example, supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities will stay open. Educational facilities are closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities is possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency --- Section Separator --- We have not repeated the same Alert Level 4 information as last year. This is because any possible future move into Alert Level 4 may look different. If you would like to read our old Alert Level 4 webpage, you can find archived versions of our site and navigate to it from there. --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives. Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan COVID-19 data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases
Home Alert Levels and updates COVID-19 compliance --- Section Separator --- If you’re concerned that someone is not following the rules you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Alert Level restrictions managed isolation requirements. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- If you’re concerned that someone is not following the rules you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Alert Level restrictions managed isolation requirements. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan COVID-19 data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases
The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19  in New Zealand. Find out how you can access the latest data. Data and statistics available COVID-19 cases Vaccine data Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) data NZ COVID Tracer app data COVID-19 data portal COVID-19 modelling reports Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 12 July 2021 The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. This includes: Current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics Source of COVID-19 cases Testing for COVID-19 0 New community cases 0 New community cases 1 New cases at the border 1 New cases at the border 33 Total active cases in New Zealand 33 Total active cases in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Last updated 7 July 2021 The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 768,867 First dose administered 768,867 First dose administered 501,852 Second dose administered 501,852 Second dose administered --- Section Separator --- Last updated 12 July 2021 The Ministry of Health collects information on how much people are using the NZ COVID Tracer app. More data is available in your app dashboard. 2,892,561 Registered users 2,892,561 Registered users 1,485,271 People with Bluetooth tracing active 1,485,271 People with Bluetooth tracing active --- Section Separator --- Last updated 9 July 2021 The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) publishes a daily snapshot of d ata and statistics about managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) in New Zealand. 152,023 Total number of people through MIQ facilities since 26 March 2020 152,023 Total number of people through MIQ facilities since 26 March 2020 --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | stats.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If the data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you’re a researcher. COVID-19 data resources | health.govt.nz (external link)
Wellington joined the rest of New Zealand at Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 29 June 2021. What we all need to do at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we'll be. Find out when you can get a COVID-19 vaccine and how to book your vaccination appointments.
Home Alert Levels and updates History of the COVID-19 Alert System --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. --- Section Separator --- The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. --- Section Separator --- The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. --- Section Separator --- At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan COVID-19 data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases
Home Alert Levels and updates Independent Advisory Groups --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the Group is to provide advice to the Minister for the COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. Sir Brian Roche, Chair Rob Fyfe, Member Dr Debbie Ryan, Member Professor Phillip Hill, Member Dr Dale Bramley, Member Terms of Reference for the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group [PDF, 207 KB] The purpose of the Group is to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. Sir David Skegg, Chair Associate Prof Nikki Turner, Member Prof Philip Hill, Member Dr Maia Brewerton, Member Prof David Murdoch, Member Dr Ella Iosua, Member Rodney Jones, Special Advisor Professor Shaun Hendy, Special Advisor Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group Terms of Reference for the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group [PDF, 159 KB] --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the Group is to provide advice to the Minister for the COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. Sir Brian Roche, Chair Rob Fyfe, Member Dr Debbie Ryan, Member Professor Phillip Hill, Member Dr Dale Bramley, Member Terms of Reference for the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group [PDF, 207 KB] --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the Group is to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. Sir David Skegg, Chair Associate Prof Nikki Turner, Member Prof Philip Hill, Member Dr Maia Brewerton, Member Prof David Murdoch, Member Dr Ella Iosua, Member Rodney Jones, Special Advisor Professor Shaun Hendy, Special Advisor Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group Terms of Reference for the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group [PDF, 159 KB] --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan COVID-19 data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 1-10 of 414 updates 12 Jul 2021 The new order will extend to cover a further 1,800 currently unvaccinated active border workers. It will come into effect at 11:59pm on 14 July. 12 Jul 2021 Managed return flights will begin from tomorrow. 12 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Jul 2021 14 days in managed isolation at MIQ to be a temporary requirement for managed return travellers from the state. 09 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Jul 2021 Research indicates 75% of New Zealanders feel like the country is heading in the right direction, and for the most part, COVID-19 is not impacting their future. 08 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Jul 2021 The Government welcomes the release of papers from the Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group into the Auckland February cluster. 07 Jul 2021 New Zealand’s regulatory authority Medsafe has granted provisional approval of the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine for individuals 18 years of age and older. 07 Jul 2021 The pause on quarantine-free travel from Queensland and New South Wales to New Zealand will continue, the Ministry of Health has confirmed.
There has been significant demand for COVID-19 testing in the Wellington region. Yesterday there were 6,999 tests nationwide of which 2,100 were taken in Wellington — 5 times the number of the day before. --- Section Separator --- In the Wellington region, testing priority is being given to individuals who have been at a location of interest at the specified time and individuals who are symptomatic. At this stage, you do not need to be tested if you were not at a location of interest, unless you are symptomatic. Check locations of interest (external link) --- Section Separator --- It is critically important we are testing those who are most at risk from COVID-19 first. Anyone who was at a location of interest or is symptomatic should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and how to book a test. People are asked to book in advance for a test. Testing is available and continues to be provided, though there may be some times when people have to wait. Currently Healthline report that callers may face a 20 minute delay on calls and they have put additional staff on to take these calls. To reduce wait times, we advise people check the Ministry of Health locations of interest before calling Healthline, and only call if you have been to one of these places or are symptomatic. --- Section Separator --- All information about where to get tested is provided on Capital and Coast DHB, Hutt Valley DHB, Wairarapa DHB and Healthpoint websites. Work is actively being done to make the information more prominent and easier to find. Find a community testing centre: Capital & Coast DHB (external link) Hutt Valley DHB (external link) (external link) Wairarapa DHB (external link) Additional testing stations are being provided today in the Wellington region. The list of testing stations, and their hours, is provided below: Wellington Central, 196–200 Taranaki Street. Open until 6pm and will reopen at 8am tomorrow. Haitaitai Park, Ruahine Street. Open until 9pm and will reopen at 10am tomorrow. Wellington Regional Hospital, carpark by Te Hopai, off Mein Street. Open 1pm to 6pm and will reopen at 8am tomorrow. Porirua, 178 Bedford Street. Open until 9pm tonight and reopen at 8am tomorrow. Johnsonville, 24 Moorefield Road. Open until 4:30pm and will reopen at 9:30am tomorrow. Upper Hutt, Heretaunga Christian Centre, 51 Lane Street. Open until 4:30pm. Lower Hutt, 729 High Street. Open until 4pm and will reopen at 9am tomorrow. Kapiti, Coastlands Shoppingtown. Open 1pm to 5pm and will reopen at 12:30pm tomorrow. Karori, 11 Parkvale Road. Open 1pm to 5pm and will reopen at 1pm tomorrow. Wairarapa, located at various medical centres. Open standard business hours, and after-hour testing is provided at Masterton Medical Centre, 4 Colombo Road. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry reminds everyone to please remain vigilant and stick to the basics: stay home if unwell and get advice about having a test, wash hands regularly, cough and sneeze into the elbow, wear masks or face coverings on all public transport, and keep track of where you’ve been – scan QR codes wherever you go and turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app dashboard. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health is closely monitoring the situation and will issue updated health advice if and when required. The Ministry’s website will continue to be updated if further exposure sites are confirmed.
These measures are precautionary, following the potential exposure of New Zealanders to a COVID-19 case from Sydney. The person visited a range of locations in Wellington from 19-21 June while they may have been infectious. Alert Level 2 came in at 6pm this evening, and will be in place for the next four days while testing and contact tracing is underway. This decision will be reviewed by Cabinet on Sunday. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1, however it is important that anybody who travels outside of Wellington takes the Alert Level 2 behaviours with them. This will help New Zealanders to keep each other safe. Alert Level 2 means limits on the size of gatherings to 100 people. Gatherings pose the biggest risk of spread, so this includes weddings, birthdays, funerals, tangi and church services. It means social distancing: 2 metres in public places, and in retail stores like supermarkets and clothes shops, and at least 1 metre in most other places like workplaces, cafes, restaurants and gyms. Face masks remain compulsory on all public transport. However, people are encouraged to also wear their masks while waiting for public transport, and in taxis and rideshare services. It is also recommended that people wear a face covering in any situation where physical distancing is not possible. Businesses can open but must follow public health rules, including ensuring physical distancing, record keeping and the cap of 100 people. Schools and ECE services also remain open. Hospitality venues can open but must apply the three S's – Seated, Separated, and Single Server. If you are sick, please stay at home; don’t go to work or school and don’t socialise. If you have symptoms of a cold or flu, or aches and pains, call your doctor or Healthline and ask about getting tested. Keep track of where you’ve been at all times. This case is a reminder of the need to use the COVID Tracer App and maintain an accurate record of your movements. This is the first time that we have moved up to Alert Level 2 to manage the potential risk of COVID-19 in the community. This is not a lockdown. If we all contribute and follow the health behaviours at Alert Level 2 we can break any potential transmission. These are precautionary measures which will remain in place while we contact trace and test everyone we need to. First and foremost we want to ensure New Zealanders are not unnecessarily exposed to COVID-19.
Based on the time of their symptom onset and CT score it is most likely they contracted the virus in Sydney prior to their visit to New Zealand. Genome sequencing is underway in Australia to see if the case is linked to the current outbreak in Sydney. This is the first time an Australian traveller has brought COVID-19 to NZ, and since gone home. New Zealand authorities were notified by their Australian counterparts Tuesday evening and the established processes of contacting the case’s close contacts and getting further information about their movements while in Wellington was initiated. At this stage four close contacts have been identified and are isolating. Sites of interest that were visited will be advised as further contact tracing is undertaken. People who have been at these sites will need to isolate and should contact Healthline for further advice. Passengers who flew on the following flights must immediately isolate at their home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and isolating . Sydney to Wellington - QF163 (Qantas): Departed Sydney Friday 18 June 7:05pm (AEST), arrived Wellington Saturday 19 June 00:12am (NZST). Wellington to Sydney - NZ247 (Air New Zealand): departed Wellington Monday 21 June 10:13am (NZST), arrived Sydney Monday 21 June 11:33am (AEST). The Ministry’s contact tracing team has been in touch with the airlines about contacting passengers on these flights to provide advice. Australian health authorities will be contacting those on the return flight to Sydney to provide advice about testing and isolation. The Ministry of Health reminds everyone to please remain vigilant and stick to the basics: stay home if unwell and get advice about having a test, wash hands regularly, cough and sneeze into the elbow, wear masks or face coverings on all public transport, and keep track of where you’ve been – scan QR codes wherever you go and turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app dashboard.
The Research Agency (TRA) was undertaken by the DPMC COVID-19 Group in May 2021 to provide an overview of how New Zealanders are feeling in relation to COVID-19, and the associated public health behaviours required of them. Those surveyed say COVID-19 has not interrupted their progress in life. However, people indicated they are looking forward to feeling relaxed, less stressed, secure and content in the next 12 months. The research showed public sentiment towards the COVID situation in NZ is quite passive with 44% of the public feeling ‘neutral’. The research also shows people in New Zealand are realistic and recognise COVID-19 health behaviours will be required in the post-vaccination era. More than 90% (91%) do not expect life to return to normal after they are vaccinated. “It’s good news the public recognise that New Zealand is entering a new phase and the vaccine will not be a silver bullet when it comes to moving on from the pandemic. We need to be thinking about layers of protection and the health behaviours that will play a role in our future.” says Deputy Chief Executive Cheryl Barnes. “The public say they are willing to do their part, but we don’t necessarily see this in their everyday routines. Part of the government’s ongoing role, working with others, is to inspire, motivate and support the public to do the right thing." According to the research, the public say they are motivated by following the rules (56%), their sense of duty (46%), avoiding another lockdown (48%), protecting family and friends (42%). Protecting friends and wh ānau is a key motivator for Māori and Pacific people. “It is good to see that people feel the virus isn’t getting in the way of their progress and has not had a negative impact on how they feel about their future.” Also of interest in the research is public attitudes towards the border. While most of those surveyed were fine with opening the bubble to a limited number of people, more than half (53%) were worried about opening quarantine free travel beyond Australia and the Cook Islands. Meanwhile, a report released yesterday by COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group looked at the way the February outbreak was managed and the current state of the Response System. Several recommendations made in the review have already been adopted as the Government response continuously evolves. “Due to the ever-evolving nature of COVID-19, we have constantly learned and adapted since the pandemic began last year and will continue to do so as we phase our reopening to the world” says Ms Barnes. The insights from this research will help inform future engagement activity and thinking.  Further research is planned in the form of ‘pulse checks’ to build understanding of how the public is feeling. Read the Sentiment and Benchmark behaviours – June 2021
The group, led by Sir Brian Roche, includes businessman Rob Fyfe, chief advisor pacific for the Ministry of Health Dr Debbie Ryan, epidemiologist Professor Philip Hill, and public health expert Dr Dale Bramley as members. These papers demonstrate the value this external oversight group brings to the Government’s philosophy of constant improvement and learning. It’s vital there is robust debate and transparency on such a critical issue. Some of the key insights in this report are being taken on board or have been superseded and others are being worked through. Performance against five key indicators were measured as 94% or better, and we’ve made further progress on contact tracing and workforce planning and capability issues, as the system continues to get stronger. And, as the group acknowledges, relationships and coordination across the health system and into the community has improved from earlier outbreaks. It’s important to remember that, as a country, we’ve done incredibly well in keeping out and eliminating community cases of the COVID-19 virus. The group finds that New Zealand’s COVID-19 response has ‘successfully eliminated community outbreaks, now including one caused by a new variant virus — the Auckland February 2021 Outbreak’. And since then, responsiveness has continued to improve, which we saw during the Wellington case in June. That’s in large part down to the efforts of our health and border workers who week in and week out keep us all safe. “But you only have to look at developments overseas, and the emergence of new more contagious variants, to see that with COVID-19, we cannot let our guard down, and we will not,” Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins said. “We’ve asked the group to shift to a new rhythm — which will see them provide updates every few weeks that can regularly plug into operations and policy making.” It’s also shifting its focus to informing a ‘fit-for-the-future’ model that builds on what is already in place, that recognises the fast pace of global change and emerging scientific understanding. Chris Hipkins said New Zealand’s approach and the sustained efforts of our border and health staff have put us in a privileged position. “It’s exhausting work but it’s necessary and we thank them. The Government is actively working to relieve pressure on staff working hard to keep their country safe.”
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speaker: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the live stream on the RNZ website (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are two new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. The seven-day rolling average of new cases detected at the border is two. Update on COVID-19 cases for 16 June 2021 (external link)
The media conference starts around 1pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield. Watch the media conference (external link)
The media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield. Watch the media conference.
The media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
The media conference starts at 1:30pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
The media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is one case to report related to recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s update yesterday. Update on cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for the COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference --- Section Separator --- There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are 3 cases of COVID-19 to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s update yesterday. There are also 2 mariners who tested positive who were announced last night which are also included in today’s figures, taking the total of new border-related cases to 5. Update on cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The Ministry of Health will host a briefing regarding the national COVID-19 vaccination online booking tool at 2pm today. This will include a practical demonstration of the booking system for people in Group 4, who will be eligible to begin booking their vaccinations in age bands from late July. Deputy Director-General of Data and Digital Shayne Hunter will lead the briefing. He will be supported by Michael Dreyer, the Group Manager of National Digital Services, who will step through the system.
Two Tauranga contacts of the visitor from Sydney to Wellington last weekend, who tested positive for COVID-19 after returning to Australia, have this afternoon returned negative tests. This means all four close contacts of the visitor identified last evening have now returned initial negative tests. This includes two contacts in Palmerston North, whose results were announced earlier. Further locations of interest, including Wellington Airport, have been published on the Ministry of Health website. Locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) Public health officials have determined that only those seated in the foodcourt at Wellington Airport between 8:30am and 9:55am on Monday 21 June need to stay at home, get a test around Day 5 after last exposure and remain at home until negative test result is received. All other people at Wellington Airport between 8:30am and 10:30am on Monday 21 June should self-monitor for COVID symptoms for 14 days. If symptoms develop, get tested and stay at home until negative test result is received. People at the other large exposure site, Te Papa, between 3:05pm and 5:45pm on Saturday 19 June are advised to stay at home, get a test around Day 5 after last exposure and remain at home until a negative test result is received. All people who return a negative test should keep monitoring for COVID-19 symptoms for 14 days. If symptoms develop, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 , get a further test immediately and stay at home until negative result is received. If you have been in contact with a person who has been asked to isolate because they were in a location of interest, advice is on the Ministry of Health website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 (external link) You do not need to stay home or get tested unless the contact becomes symptomatic at which point, you need to stay at home until they return a negative test result. If you’ve been in contact with a person who has been asked to stay at home and get a test after 5 days, you do not need stay at home or get tested. If you become symptomatic yourself, please get tested. A Section 70 notice is in place. A pop-up testing station has been opened this afternoon at Hataitai Park. Other dedicated testing stations in Wellington and their opening hours are as follows. Wellington central, 196-200 Taranaki Street. Will remain open until 9pm tonight, subject to demand and will reopen tomorrow at 10am. Porirua, 178 Bedford Street. Will be until 6pm tonight and reopen at 9am tomorrow. Johnsonville Medical Centre, 24 Moorefield Road. Will be open tomorrow 9.30am-4pm. Lower Hutt, 729 High St. Open 9am to 4pm. Upper Hutt, Heretaunga Christian Centre, 51 Lane Street. Open 9am to 4.30pm. People can also be tested at many GP or urgent care clinics.
The Government is further strengthening the border against COVID-19 by making it mandatory for more of the workforce to be vaccinated. To prevent the virus getting into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting the people who work there. The new COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Amendment Order 2021 comes into effect at 11:59pm on 14 July 2021. As well as workers at Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) facilities, workers at our ports and airports who are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19 must now be vaccinated. The vaccination of MIQ workers has been successful so far. Latest numbers show there were 4,332 MIQ workers on site last week ending 4 July, all of whom were vaccinated. No unvaccinated worker can enter an MIQ facility. Of the active air border workers, 82% are fully vaccinated and 2% have received a single dose and await their second. However only 54% of active port workers have been fully vaccinated, and we need to see this number increased to avoid the risk of COVID-19 entering the country via our ports. The mandatory order will be extended to cover a further 1,800 currently unvaccinated active border workers. This is necessary to lift the uptake of the vaccine among the wider border workforce and strengthen our ongoing response to COVID-19. We encourage border employers to look at opportunities to make it easy for their workers to get vaccine appointments and to urge employees to get their vaccination. It is in their interests to keep COVID-19 out and their businesses open by having a vaccinated workforce. The legislation allows for a reasonable window for vaccination. All government employees covered by the order must have had their first dose by 26 August. Privately employed border workers must have had their first dose by 30 September. New workers covered by the Order (regardless of employer) will need to have their first dose before starting work. Border workers who remain unvaccinated after the requirements come into effect will need to discuss options with their employer. They will not be able to continue working in a high-risk border environment until they are vaccinated. The expanded Order applies to people working at: MIQ facilities (previously covered) airside area of affected airports and some other higher-risk work at airports affected ports accommodation services where specified aircrew members are self-isolating. It also includes work: that involves handling affected items removed from ships, aircraft or MIQ facilities where the job is for a company that is routinely engaged to provide services for an aircraft, ship or MIQ facility where the employee 'has contact with' people who belong to different groups in the Order.
Rising case numbers in New South Wales and people there not isolating has changed public health advice and means flights back from NSW will not start from midnight tonight as was intended. Case numbers in Sydney show no sign of plateauing and NSW has today ramped up restrictions again. We have responded quickly and moved to act on new advice to hold off on managed return flights from the state for three more days. As a result, work is underway to stage flights from Tuesday, 13 July to Auckland and Christchurch airports only. 14 days in managed isolation at MIQ will be a temporary requirement for travellers from NSW from Tuesday. This was a difficult decision but we consider it is necessary given the heightened risk in NSW. We know there are Kiwis who’ve been on holiday, reconnecting with family or doing business wanting to get back. However New Zealand public health officials – who are in daily contact with their NSW counterparts – have assessed that the risk to New Zealand from the state has continued to increase. That warrants an extra level of protection at the border for the time being. People going into managed isolation at MIQ will be tested on Day 0, as is usual protocol, which means they will not need to get a repeat pre-departure test. They will not be invoiced for the stay. In the intervening period, about 1000 rooms at MIQs over the next fortnight will be readied and plans made to prioritise the first cohorts of retuning travellers. Rooms were kept aside specifically for this purpose. The Government wants to reassure people that they will be able to return but ask for patience. Travellers can expect to receive more detailed guidance from their airlines over the next 24 hours. This will include how they can secure a seat on a flight home and a room in MIQ. Rooms will not be allocated through the usual MIAS system. In the meantime, we are strongly advising people not to fly to Sydney unless they normally live there and are returning home. The travel bubble pause with NSW remains in place. Managed return flights from Queensland will continue as planned from midnight tonight, and indications are that the pause with Queensland will lift early next week.
The mariners are part of a group of nine who arrived in Auckland on Monday before being transferred onto a deep sea fishing vessel in New Plymouth. Health officials currently regard the situation as representing a low risk to public health due to standard infection prevention controls. All nine provided negative COVID-19 pre-departure test results before travelling to New Zealand. Following these initial negative tests and their arrival in New Zealand, the mariners were tested again at an airport testing site in Auckland prior to transfer to the vessel at Port Taranaki. The seven other mariners have since returned negative COVID-19 tests. The vessel has now left New Plymouth and is in international waters off the coast of Taranaki. All nine mariners are still onboard and isolating. The Ministry of Health is now reviewing the flight and airport movements of the mariners as part of the contact tracing process. Due to the standard infection prevention controls and other precautions taken there is minimal additional risk to any of the contacts during the transfer process. At this point, public health staff have identified three contacts who are currently isolating, including two people who work at the port and the driver who transported the mariners from Auckland to New Plymouth. Health authorities in Taranaki and Auckland will be following up and all three will receive their routine tests while in isolation. At this stage, there are no associated locations of interest.
The largest shipment of Pfizer vaccines yet has arrived 2 days ahead of schedule, thanks to a joint effort by the Ministry of Health, Pfizer and logistics company DHL, says COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins. The shipment of 150,000 doses touched down late yesterday afternoon. The vaccines were taken straight from the tarmac at Auckland Airport to the storage and distribution centre, where quality checks were carried out to ensure ultra-low temperatures were maintained during the flight and that none of the vials were damaged in transit. The vaccines were prepared for shipment by road and air to District Health Boards and vaccination centres around the country today. New Zealand had distributed nearly all of its supply of the Pfizer vaccine in storage, giving DHBs enough stock to last until Wednesday. The early arrival means no DHB will run out of vaccine. The Ministry of Health has been in constant contact with Pfizer. The company helped secure an earlier release of the vaccines, while DHL planned a route with the quickest transit times to get the vaccines to New Zealand quickly and safely. Our goal is to keep New Zealanders safe from COVID-19 and vaccination is an important part of that.
There are now 36 recent community cases of COVID-19 in New South Wales – including four not yet linked to the existing outbreak that are urgently being investigated by Australian health officials. This decision follows a further public health assessment today in which officials consider a range of factors – whether any new cases are identified, the results from COVID-19 testing of any contacts identified and from the wider Sydney community. The Government strongly believes a cautious approach is the best course of action while these investigations continue. New Zealand public health staff remain in close contact with New South Wales authorities about the actions being taken in Sydney, and will review the decision to continue the pause late next week. Anyone who has only been in Norfolk Island and not elsewhere in New South Wales is still eligible for Quarantine Free Travel. However anyone who was at a location of interest at the specified times cannot travel to New Zealand within 14 days of the exposure event. This applies to all travellers, no matter what Australian State or Territory they are departing from. Passengers will be asked on departure from Australia by their airline and on arrival in New Zealand by Customs at the eGate if they have been at a location of interest. All travellers to New Zealand must also complete the Nau Mai Ra travel declaration which allows contact tracers to get in touch with them if they’ve been in an affected area at the relevant time but have since travelled to New Zealand. Locations of interest in Australia Travel declaration for travelling quarantine-free to New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand health officials recently updated their advice for anyone already in New Zealand who has recently visited Sydney’s Westfield Bondi Junction mall. New South Wales public health officials are continuing to add new locations of interest. Anyone who has been in Sydney since 11 June should continue checking the locations of interest. Anyone who has been at these locations of interest at the specified times should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 , get tested and self-isolate until they return a negative result.
New Zealand health officials met again today and determined that, at this time, there is still a need to get a better understanding of the developing situation and the number, and pattern, of cases being reported in these Australian States. A range of factors for each State were considered, including whether any new cases are identified, whether they were infectious in the community, and the results from COVID-19 testing of any contacts and from the wider community. New Zealand public health staff remain in close contact with Australian health authorities about the actions being taken in each State. As with previous pauses, it will be under constant review. We consider this pause to be prudent while investigations continue and until further test results are returned. The Government has announced plans for the carefully managed commencement of ‘return green flights’ from Queensland and New South Wales to New Zealand, from Friday 9 July at 11:59pm. Learn more about return green flights (external link) Travel on such flights will be limited to New Zealand citizens, Australian citizens normally resident in New Zealand, people with humanitarian exemptions and critical workers who are stranded in Queensland or New South Wales. Anyone boarding these flights will need to have a negative pre-departure test taken within 72 hours before departure. Travellers must also meet all the standard public health measures for travel, which include declaring they have not been in a location of interest in the past 14 days, are not symptomatic, are not a close contact and are not awaiting the results of a COVID-19 test. Upon return to New Zealand, travellers are asked to monitor themselves closely for any COVID-19 symptoms after arrival in the country and to diligently keep contact tracing records using the NZ COVID Tracer app or another form of diary. Likewise, anyone with COVID-19 symptoms should stay at home, get tested, and remain in isolation until a negative test result is returned. The increasing number of cases we are seeing in many parts of the world – including by our Australian neighbours – is a stark reminder that the COVID-19 pandemic is continuing. It reinforces we are taking the right approach with our precautionary actions to protect the public health of New Zealanders. Further information about quarantine-free travel between Australia and New Zealand, and details about acceptable pre-departure documentation, is on the Unite against COVID-19 website. Learn more about quarantine-free travel (external link)
Quarantine free travel (QFT) pause with Western Australia and Northern Territory to be lifted at 11:59pm (NZT) Friday, 9 July. Managed return flights from NSW and Queensland for people ordinarily resident* in New Zealand to start from 11:59pm (NZT), Friday 9 July. Pause between New Zealand and Queensland to be reviewed on Wednesday, 7 July. The Government has today carefully considered health advice and will further ease Australia travel bubble restrictions at 11:59pm (NZT) Friday, 9 July. Officials have assessed that the spread of COVID-19 cases appears to have been contained in Western Australia and Northern Territory, that there is robust surveillance, testing and contact tracing to detect and manage cases, and adequate border controls are in place to prevent the spread of new cases. Based on this advice, Cabinet has today agreed that passengers can resume travel between New Zealand and Western Australia and Northern Territory from Saturday morning, 10 July, subject to strict conditions that will minimise the risk of COVID-19 spreading to New Zealand. Conditions include a negative pre-departure test result from a test taken within three days before departure — this is already a requirement for all travel from Australia to New Zealand. Travellers must not also have previously been in New South Wales or Queensland on or after 10:30pm (NZT) on 26 June. If they have been at a location of interest before then, they will not be able to travel to New Zealand for 14 days since they were last at that location. Travellers must also: follow the current public health measures in place wear face coverings on the aircraft and at the airport make a health declaration self isolate and be tested immediately if they have any symptoms of illness. They should download the COVID tracer app and may be subject to random temperature checks. The pause with South Australia, ACT, Tasmania and Victoria lifted this morning. --- Section Separator --- QFT with Australia is important for both countries but only when it is safe. That’s why decisions are made for each state or territory. Officials’ current assessment is that it’s too soon to make a call to lift the pause between New Zealand and Queensland, and as an extra precaution they want to see two or three more days’ worth of data. The pause between New Zealand and NSW will continue until further notice. The Government is, however, extremely mindful there will be people currently in NSW and Queensland that are ordinarily resident in New Zealand who are desperate to know when they can return and what steps they need to take. Managed return flights from NSW and Queensland for those eligible will start from 11:59pm (NZT), Friday 9 July, subject to conditions. The introduction of these managed return flights will be similar to how we managed the return of travellers following the Victorian lockdown. Further details of the conditions will be issued tomorrow morning. *Travellers eligible for managed return flights are: New Zealand citizens and holders of residence class visas holders of temporary visas and Australian citizens, who last departed New Zealand after 5 April 2021 holders of current permanent residence visas (including a resident return visa) issued by the Government of Australia who last departed New Zealand after 5 April 2021, and relevant family members of people listed above.
Managed return flights will begin from tomorrow as the Government moves to allow people currently in New South Wales (NSW) who normally reside in New Zealand, but have found themselves stranded in NSW, to return home. COVID-19 Group Head of Response Planning and Readiness Graham MacLean said these will be commercial flights able to operate subject to the number of spaces available in managed isolation facilities. There will be approximately 1,000 rooms made available across the next 2 weeks. After this initial 2 week emergency allocation, officials will determine if another 2 week cycle of rooms needs to be made available for NSW returnees. “We are doing our best to make sure New Zealanders who need to get home can get home but people will need to be patient and need to understand that not all rooms will be available immediately,” says Graham MacLean. “We understand that this is a stressful time for people but we do ask that people be kind to staff across airlines, call centres and MIQ. Everyone is doing their best to help”. More information about managed return flights from NSW --- Section Separator --- New Zealand citizens. New Zealand permanent residents or resident visa holders. Citizens of Australia or persons who hold current permanent residence visas (including a resident return visa) issued by the Government of Australia who last departed New Zealand after 5 April 2021. Holders of New Zealand temporary visas who last departed New Zealand after 5 April 2021. Spouses, civil union partners, de facto partners, dependent children or parents of dependent children of any of the above categories. --- Section Separator --- Bookings need to be completed directly with airlines. Flights with Air New Zealand can be booked via their website from 10am (NZT) on Monday 12 July. Qantas will reach out to customers with existing bookings from Sydney to New Zealand and will provide a priority phone number from Monday 12 July. Air New Zealand website (external link) People are automatically assigned a place in managed isolation once they are booked on a managed return flight. They do not need to book a place in a managed isolation facility via the online booking system. --- Section Separator --- A certain portion of seats will be made available for travellers with an urgent or exceptional need who meet certain criteria. This includes healthcare or childcare needs, providing critical care for dependants, financial hardship or compassionate grounds. The full list of eligibility requirements can be found on the Unite against COVID-19 website. Travellers with an urgent or exceptional need who meet certain criteria The Government has set up a call centre for travellers with an urgent or exceptional need to return to New Zealand. Call +64 4 439 8235 on Monday to Friday, 10am to 10pm (NZT) / 8am to 8pm (NSW time). Email NSW2NZ@mfat.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Anyone found to be trying to enter New Zealand by travelling from New South Wales via another Australian state will immediately be placed in a managed isolation facility at their own cost. A fine may also be imposed. “We are aware that this may be a frustrating time for people caught out by the continuing restriction in NSW but government agencies are working hard to make sure demand for people to come home is managed appropriately,” says Graham MacLean. More information about managed return flights from NSW
The vaccine media conference starts at 12:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the live stream on the RNZ website (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are two new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. The seven-day rolling average of new cases detected at the border is two. Update on COVID-19 cases for 17 June 2021 (external link)
The next step is for Cabinet to review advice from the Ministry of Health about the ‘decision to use’. Cabinet are expected to consider this issue soon. Until then, young people aged 12 to 15 cannot be given the vaccine. Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It evaluates applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. Its process for approving the use of the Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 has been carefully considered and robust, with safety as the key priority. There are around 265,000 people in this age bracket. We have ordered more than enough Pfizer vaccines for everyone who is already eligible, along with this new group, to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. No one will miss out on a vaccine. If Cabinet approve a ‘decision to use’ Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine for 12- to 15-year-olds, the Ministry of Health will provide advice about how young people will be able to access their vaccinations as part of the rollout. It will not be mandatory for young people to get vaccinated. A number of countries including Canada, the United States and Europe have already approved vaccination for 12 to 15-year-olds, and some have begun to vaccinate this cohort.
Following an assessment by New Zealand public health officials that the public health risk from Victoria is low, the pause in quarantine-free travel with the Australian state will be lifted at 11:59pm tomorrow (Tuesday). From this time, quarantine-free travel flights between New Zealand and Victoria can resume. Travellers will no longer be required to have a pre-departure test. However, all travellers are encouraged to continue monitoring for symptoms and checking the Victorian Health website for any updated locations of interest. Locations of interest in Victoria (external link) Those in New Zealand who have recently been in Victoria, New South Wales or Queensland are advised to get tested if they develop symptoms. Anyone in New Zealand who has been at any of the current locations of interest or newly identified locations of interest in Victoria, New South Wales or Queensland in the last 14 days at the specified times should continue to self-isolate and contact Healthline for advice on testing. Individuals in Australia who were at any of the locations of interest in Victoria, New South Wales or Queensland at the specified times are asked to follow the health advice in the relevant state regarding isolation and testing. They must not travel to New Zealand within 14 days of being at the location of interest. In the past week there have been no new cases in Victoria with the Delta variant of concern. Victorian health officials have determined there is unlikely to be widespread community transmission. They continue to carry out about 15,000 tests a day and there has been no unexplained COVID-19 detected in wastewater samples.
The decision follows updated public health advice from officials this evening. There are now multiple cases and outbreaks in Australia in differing stages of containment and the health risk for New Zealand in response to these cases is increasing. As a result the Government has taken the precautionary step of temporarily widening the current pause with New South Wales to include all of Australia. This short pause will give us time to get a better understanding of the developing situation and to consider the potential implementation of a range of measures to make the bubble safer, such as the introduction of pre-departure testing for all flights from Australia to New Zealand. The Government will continue to monitor the situation closely and the decision will be reviewed on Monday. We remain committed to Quarantine Free Travel with Australia. The pause is necessary given the growing number of COVID-19 cases being reported across Australia. The Government acknowledges the frustration and inconvenience that comes with this pause, but given the high level of transmissibility of what appears to be the Delta variant, and the fact that there are now multiple community clusters, it is the right thing to do to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. New Zealand travellers in Australia should follow the health instructions of the state or territory they are in. Anyone who was in Australia from June 21 onwards should monitor their health, and be aware that the number of locations of interest are increasing and they should be checking these regularly. It is also important that people contact Healthline should they develop any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- Travellers in Australia need to follow local health advice and monitor the Australian Government Department of Health website for any changes to the COVID-19 situation in the state they are in. Learn more about local health advice in Australia | health.gov.au (external link) Travellers will need to check with the airline they booked with for further information about fight changes.
The Ministry of Health has confirmed quarantine-free travel with New South Wales will continue — subject to no further significant developments in the Australian state. New Zealand health officials met today to conduct an assessment of the public health risk from the recently identified COVID-19 community cases in Sydney. It has been determined that, at this time, the risk to public health in New Zealand remains low. Health officials are continuing to review details of 3 confirmed community cases of COVID-19 reported in New South Wales in the past 24 hours, and a fourth case is under investigation. The Ministry strongly believes a cautious approach is the best course of action while investigations continue, so quarantine-free travel with New South Wales will be under constant review. We remain in close contact with health officials in New South Wales and will continue to closely monitor the situation. Updates will be provided if there is any change to this latest advice. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry is contacting people who have travelled from Sydney to New Zealand since 11 June to advise them to check the locations of interest and self-monitor for symptoms of COVID-19. Anyone who develops symptoms should self-isolate and contact Healthline about getting a test. Border controls are a key tool for stopping the introduction and spread of new cases from overseas and remain central to our elimination strategy. --- Section Separator --- There is some specific advice for travellers to be aware of: Flights from New South Wales to New Zealand will continue — subject to no significant developments in New South Wales. Anyone who is in Australia and was at any of the locations of interest at the times specified is asked to follow NSW health advice regarding isolation and testing and must not travel to New Zealand within 14 days from when they were at the location. As before, anyone who has arrived in New Zealand and who was at a location of interest at the specified time must self-isolate immediately and call Healthline for information on when they should be tested. There will be some additional public health measures required for people who are or have recently been in Sydney. Airlines will continue to ask people departing Australia whether they have visited any locations of interest in New South Wales both before and when disembarking from their flights. A Section 70 notice has been issued under the Health Act, which requires any person in New Zealand who attended locations of interest to self-isolate and get tested for COVID-19. More information on what a section 70 notice is and what it means for these people, is available on the Ministry of Health website. Section 70 notices (external link) Quarantine-free travel between New South Wales and New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia
There are 10 new community cases of COVID-19 today in New South Wales, taking the Australian state’s recent community cases linked to the cluster to 21. The pause will come into force from 11.59pm NZT and be in place for 72 hours initially. As with previous pauses, it will be under constant review. This decision follows a public health assessment today which determined that while the overall risk to public health in New Zealand currently remains low, there are still several unknowns, including a case that was infectious while in the Sydney community and a primary school age child with no clear link established at present. The Government is taking a precautionary approach and will review the decision to pause again on Thursday. Anyone who has only been in Norfolk Island and not in NSW is still eligible for quarantine-free travel. New Zealand health officials are also updating their advice for anyone already in New Zealand who has recently visited Sydney’s Westfield Bondi Junction mall. It follows a new case of COVID-19 reported in Sydney today, connected to the busy mall, which is popular with locals and New Zealand visitors. In line with NSW Health’s advice: Anyone in New Zealand who was at Westfield Bondi Junction (including the car park) in Sydney’s Bondi Junction at any time between 12 June and 18 June should contact Healthline on 0800 358 5453 , get tested and stay at home until they get a negative test result, or remain isolated if instructed. NSW public health officials are continuing to add new locations of interest. Anyone who has been in Sydney since 11 June should check the NSW Health website. Learn more about New South Wales locations of interest — NSW Government website (external link) Anyone at these locations of interest at the specified times should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 , get tested and self-isolate until they return a negative result. Anyone who was at a location of interest at the specified times also cannot travel to New Zealand within 14 days of the exposure event. This is also a reminder that anyone with symptoms, not just recent travellers, should get tested for COVID-19. New Zealand public health officials are regularly reviewing developments in the Australian state and advice will be updated, if and when required. Find more information about quarantine-free travel between New South Wales and New Zealand: New South Wales — quarantine-free travel
Following a further public health assessment of the COVID-19 outbreak in greater Melbourne, New Zealand’s quarantine-free travel pause with Victoria has been extended to 11:59pm on Tuesday 22 June. It has been determined that the risk to public health in New Zealand continues to decrease and, at this time, public health officials consider it unlikely there is further widespread community transmission in the state. However, in line with our precautionary approach we consider this short extension to be prudent. New Zealand health officials will keep a close watch on developments in the state but at this point their advice is that we would expect to be in a position to lift the pause at the end of the 5 day extension. This will reviewed if the situation changes. There are now 100 cases associated with the outbreak in the greater Melbourne area, spread across all clusters. The most recent report of a case being infectious in the community was 8 June, until the case announced this week of a nurse who may have worked a hospital shift while infectious. We acknowledge the pause in quarantine-free travel continues to inconvenience those who have had their travel plans disrupted. Everyone who is eligible can already return on “green flights”, meaning they are not be required to isolate when they arrive home. However, they must provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 test taken within 3 days of departure. A PCR test is required. Information about quarantine-free travel between Victoria and New Zealand --- Section Separator --- New Zealand health officials are also reviewing details of cases announced yesterday in New South Wales which appear to have a clear link to the border. It is expected that further information will be provided on the NSW cases later today. Anyone in New Zealand who visited a location of interest at the specified time in Victoria, New South Wales or Queensland is unable to travel and remains covered by a Section 70 notice, which has been issued under the Health Act. More information is available on the Ministry of Health website (external link) In the meantime, these cases in Australia are an important reminder that we should remain vigilant and stick to the basics — use the NZ COVID Tracer app, stay put if you are sick, and wear a face covering on all flights and public transport.
New Zealand secured 2 million doses of the Janssen vaccine through an advance purchase agreement last year. We purchased a portfolio of vaccine options to provide us with flexibility, and the approval of a second COVID-19 vaccine is welcome news. Medsafe follows a rigorous assessment process informed by the most up to date medical and scientific data. Approval has been very carefully considered with safety the key priority. The medical evidence shows Janssen is a very safe and effective vaccine. The Janssen COVID-19 vaccine has also received emergency or provisional approval in Canada, USA and Australia. While our plan remains to ramp up the roll-out using the Pfizer vaccine from here, having the option of the Janssen vaccine increases our choices and provides us with flexibility if we need it. As a single dose vaccine, it may be useful in hard to reach locations or emergencies, or for those who cannot get the Pfizer vaccine. New Zealand is already receiving significant deliveries of the Pfizer vaccine and has secured enough doses of the Pfizer vaccine for the population of New Zealand and our Pacific neighbours, in 2021. Provisional approval is the first step in the process. Cabinet will weigh up the options on the best use of the Janssen vaccine following advice from officials. A Cabinet ‘decision to use’ can be expected sometime in August. Our rollout of the COVID-19 immunisation programme is well underway and we have a plan to offer a Pfizer vaccine to everyone in New Zealand by the end of the year. It’s good to have a range of options to access safe and effective vaccines to meet the need of New Zealanders now and in the future.
If you were on the Wellington-bound flight, you must immediately: isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and isolating. Australian health authorities will be contacting those on the return flight to Sydney to provide advice about testing and isolation. The Ministry of Health will publish any further locations of interest in New Zealand on their website. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is 1 case to report related to recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is 1 new case of COVID-19 to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are no new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) (external link) (external link) .
There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is 1 new case to report in a recent returnee in a managed isolation facility since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) (external link) (external link) (external link) .
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are 2 cases to report related to recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are 3 new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are also no cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are four cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are also no cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Today's update provides further information about: The Australian traveller who visited Wellington Wellingtonians and visitors urged to check locations of interest Additional COVID-19 testing sites available in Wellington region Advice for travellers from New South Wales Advice for travellers from Queensland Advice for travellers to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia Testing information Wastewater testing NZ COVID Tracer Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are 2 cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Today's update provides further information about: The Australian traveller who visited Wellington Wellingtonians and visitors urged to check locations of interest Additional COVID-19 testing sites available in Wellington region Testing information NZ COVID Tracer Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is 1 case to report related to recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Today's update provides further information about: Contacts of the Australian traveller who visited Wellington Wellingtonians and visitors urged to check locations of interest Additional COVID-19 testing sites available in Wellington region Indeterminate test result under investigation Quarantine-free travel with Australia paused Testing information NZ COVID Tracer Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are 10 cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s last update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are 7 cases to report related to recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is one case to report related to recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There is one case of COVID-19 to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no cases of COVID-19 to report in the community in New Zealand today. There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since the Ministry’s update yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The first 6 locations of interest in Wellington visited by an Australian traveller from Sydney last weekend who has tested positive for COVID-19 upon their return to Australia have been published on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Contact tracing locations of interest (external link) New Zealand’s contact tracing team are working with their Australian counterparts to gather more information about the visitor’s movements and the website will continue to be updated as further exposure sites are confirmed. --- Section Separator --- Wellingtonians and visitors to Wellington last weekend are urged to check the website and continue checking throughout the day. The visitor was in Wellington from Saturday 19 June until Monday 21 June. People who have been at these locations at the relevant time should immediately isolate at their home or accommodation and contact Healthline for advice on testing. At this stage 4 close contacts have been identified and are isolating. Passengers in New Zealand who flew on the following flights should also immediately isolate at their home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and isolating: Sydney to Wellington — QF163 (Qantas): Departed Sydney Friday 18 June 7:05pm (AEST), arrived Wellington Saturday 19 June 00:12am (NZST). Wellington to Sydney — NZ247 (Air New Zealand): departed Wellington Monday 21 June 10:13am (NZST), arrived Sydney Monday 21 June 11:33am (AEST). Australian health authorities will be contacting those on the return flight to Sydney to provide advice about testing and isolation. Public health officials have said that based on the time of their symptom onset and CT score, it is most likely the visitor contracted the virus in Sydney before their visit to New Zealand. Genome sequencing is underway in Australia to see if the case is linked to the current outbreak in Sydney. Advice if you were in Wellington --- Section Separator --- The Ministry reminds everyone to please remain vigilant and stick to the basics: stay home if unwell and get advice about having a test wash hands regularly, cough and sneeze into the elbow wear masks or face coverings on all public transport keep track of where you’ve been — scan QR codes wherever you go and turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app dashboard.
New South Wales health officials have this evening confirmed an epidemiological link and we were awaiting confirmation of the completion of whole genome sequencing. Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay says the confirmation reinforces we are taking the right approach with our precautionary actions to ensure COVID-19 stays out of the community. “The signs so far are encouraging – testing has ramped up and there have not been any community cases at this point. “But I want to emphasise the importance of staying vigilant, stay home if unwell and get advice about having a test, wash hands regularly, cough and sneeze into the elbow, wear masks or face coverings on all public transport, and keep track of where you’ve been – scan QR codes wherever you go and turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app dashboard. “It’s incredibly important people keep up to date with the Ministry’s locations of interest in Wellington and if you’ve been at one, to continue to isolate either for the full 14 days and get at least two negative test results or to isolate until a negative day five test, depending on your situation.”
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 11-20 of 414 updates 07 Jul 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Jul 2021 Two mariners have tested positive for COVID-19. They are currently isolating on a vessel at sea off the coast of Taranaki. 06 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Jul 2021 New Zealand's largest shipment of Pfizer vaccines yet has arrived 2 days ahead of schedule. 05 Jul 2021 The Government will further ease Australia travel bubble restrictions at 11:59pm (NZT) Friday, 9 July. 05 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Jul 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 Jun 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers. 29 Jun 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 21-30 of 414 updates 28 Jun 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jun 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jun 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers. 26 Jun 2021 Quarantine Free Travel from all Australian states and territories will be paused from 10.30pm (NZT) tonight until 11.59pm (NZT) on Tuesday 29 June. 26 Jun 2021 The Ministry of Health can confirm the whole genome sequencing of the Australian tourist who visited Wellington is the Delta variant of COVID-19. 25 Jun 2021 Watch a walk through of the Book My Vaccine booking tool which will go live on 28 July. 25 Jun 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Jun 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers. 24 Jun 2021 The pause on quarantine-free travel from New South Wales to New Zealand will continue for a further 12 days, until 11:59pm (NZT) Tuesday 6 July. 24 Jun 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 31-40 of 414 updates 24 Jun 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 Jun 2021 In Wellington region, testing priority is being given to those who have been at a location of interest and those who are symptomatic. 23 Jun 2021 Alert Level 2 measures are now in place for Wellington, Wairarapa and Kāpiti Coast to the north of Ōtaki. 23 Jun 2021 All four close contacts of the visitor from Sydney have returned initial negative test results. 23 Jun 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers. 23 Jun 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Jun 2021 The first 6 locations of interest in Wellington visited by an Australian traveller from Sydney have been published on the Ministry of Health website. 23 Jun 2021 A traveller from Sydney, who visited Wellington from Saturday 19 June until Monday 21 June, has tested positive for COVID-19 upon their return to Australia. 23 Jun 2021 NSW Health have advised New Zealand health officials of two flights of interest relating to a COVID-19 case who travelled to Wellington. 22 Jun 2021 Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales to New Zealand will pause while the source of infection of new cases announced in Sydney is investigated.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 371-380 of 414 updates 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 381-390 of 414 updates 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 391-400 of 414 updates 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 41-50 of 414 updates 22 Jun 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 21 Jun 2021 The pause in quarantine-free travel with Victoria will be lifted at 11:59pm on Tuesday 22 June 2021. 21 Jun 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 21 Jun 2021 Medsafe has given provisional approval of the Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 years. 18 Jun 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Jun 2021 Quarantine-free travel with New South Wales will continue — subject to no further significant developments in the Australian state. 17 Jun 2021 Watch the Group 4 vaccine media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Jun 2021 New Zealand’s quarantine-free travel pause with Victoria has been extended to 11:59pm on Tuesday 22 June. 16 Jun 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Jun 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 401-410 of 414 updates 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 411-414 of 414 updates 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 51-60 of 414 updates 14 Jun 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 Jun 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Jun 2021 Following an assessment of the COVID-19 outbreak in greater Melbourne, NZ’s quarantine-free travel pause with Victoria will continue for a further 7 days. 10 Jun 2021 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Jun 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 09 Jun 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Jun 2021 Doses of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine will arrive in weekly drops from mid July. 08 Jun 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Jun 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 Jun 2021 The pause in New Zealand’s quarantine-free travel with Victoria will be extended until 11:59pm on Thursday 10 June.
Home Alert Levels and updates Legislation and key documents --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan COVID-19 data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases
Home Alert Levels and updates National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan --- Section Separator --- In summer New Zealanders travel around the country, socialise, and go to large events, increasing the possible spread of COVID-19 in the community. During the holidays, this can make any response more challenging — but we’ve got a plan. Our plan outlines how to reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. How we will reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. What you can do to reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases: Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your NZ COVID Tracer app. Scan QR codes wherever you go. Wash and dry your hands. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Stay home if you're sick, and call Healthline or your doctor to see about a test. Travel with a 'COVID-19 kit' — soap, hand sanitiser and a face covering. How we will ready our toolkit. Border entry measures: Managed Isolation & Quarantine, and workforce testing. Contact tracing: NZ COVID Tracer app/Bluetooth data and push notifications, and an on-call workforce. Community testing: Targeted testing of contacts, surveillance testing, pop-up stations, and an on-call workforce. Face coverings: Where physical distancing is not possible. Alert Level change: Localised with a boundary to contain the virus, or nationwide. How we would respond if resurgence happens. Community case confirmed and transmission risk assessed. If needed, Ministry of Health COVID-19 Resurgence Plan and National Resurgence Response Plan activated. The location and extent of outbreak risk is assessed. A central government leadership group decides if no further action is required, or monitors the situation, or activates response system. If the response system is activated, a team of central and local government, iwi and community leaders work with local Civil Defence and Emergency Management to manage the outbreak, including: the immediate public health response care for vulnerable people and communities supporting businesses. COVID-19 is a tricky virus — we’ve learned a lot from our experience so far, but we all have a part to play in stopping the spread. Our ‘test, trace and isolate’ approach focuses on being able to test lots of people and quickly trace and isolate contacts. We cannot predict where or how a new case might appear in the community, but we’ve done a lot of planning to handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances such as the location or timing, it’s useful to think of 3 scenarios over summer. A border worker tests positive as part of routine testing. Rapid contact tracing finds the person has had limited movements and few contacts with people while not at work. This is a standard ‘test, trace and isolate’ case. New Zealand would likely remain in Alert Level 1. Summer holidays are not likely to be interrupted. Keep an eye out for updates on this website and on our Facebook page Unite against COVID-19 Facebook page (external link) A person tests positive while on holiday at a campsite. Initial investigation finds the person is related to a border worker. There is a good chance that contact tracing will identify anyone else they may have infected. Local or regional testing capacity would be ramped up. Targeted restrictions and/or Alert Level changes are possible. Campers would be asked to follow official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. A person tests positive after they travel home from a large music festival in a different region. Investigation finds no link to the border. A large number of people were possibly exposed at the festival and have now travelled out of the region. There is a high risk of transmission across the country. The nature of the festival will make identifying close contacts difficult. Testing capacity would be ramped up nationwide. A nationwide Alert Level change is possible. Events may be cancelled, and New Zealanders may be asked to stay where they are in their bubble while they wait for official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] --- Section Separator --- In summer New Zealanders travel around the country, socialise, and go to large events, increasing the possible spread of COVID-19 in the community. During the holidays, this can make any response more challenging — but we’ve got a plan. Our plan outlines how to reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. --- Section Separator --- How we will reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. What you can do to reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases: Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your NZ COVID Tracer app. Scan QR codes wherever you go. Wash and dry your hands. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Stay home if you're sick, and call Healthline or your doctor to see about a test. Travel with a 'COVID-19 kit' — soap, hand sanitiser and a face covering. How we will ready our toolkit. Border entry measures: Managed Isolation & Quarantine, and workforce testing. Contact tracing: NZ COVID Tracer app/Bluetooth data and push notifications, and an on-call workforce. Community testing: Targeted testing of contacts, surveillance testing, pop-up stations, and an on-call workforce. Face coverings: Where physical distancing is not possible. Alert Level change: Localised with a boundary to contain the virus, or nationwide. How we would respond if resurgence happens. Community case confirmed and transmission risk assessed. If needed, Ministry of Health COVID-19 Resurgence Plan and National Resurgence Response Plan activated. The location and extent of outbreak risk is assessed. A central government leadership group decides if no further action is required, or monitors the situation, or activates response system. If the response system is activated, a team of central and local government, iwi and community leaders work with local Civil Defence and Emergency Management to manage the outbreak, including: the immediate public health response care for vulnerable people and communities supporting businesses. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a tricky virus — we’ve learned a lot from our experience so far, but we all have a part to play in stopping the spread. Our ‘test, trace and isolate’ approach focuses on being able to test lots of people and quickly trace and isolate contacts. We cannot predict where or how a new case might appear in the community, but we’ve done a lot of planning to handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances such as the location or timing, it’s useful to think of 3 scenarios over summer. A border worker tests positive as part of routine testing. Rapid contact tracing finds the person has had limited movements and few contacts with people while not at work. This is a standard ‘test, trace and isolate’ case. New Zealand would likely remain in Alert Level 1. Summer holidays are not likely to be interrupted. Keep an eye out for updates on this website and on our Facebook page Unite against COVID-19 Facebook page (external link) A person tests positive while on holiday at a campsite. Initial investigation finds the person is related to a border worker. There is a good chance that contact tracing will identify anyone else they may have infected. Local or regional testing capacity would be ramped up. Targeted restrictions and/or Alert Level changes are possible. Campers would be asked to follow official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. A person tests positive after they travel home from a large music festival in a different region. Investigation finds no link to the border. A large number of people were possibly exposed at the festival and have now travelled out of the region. There is a high risk of transmission across the country. The nature of the festival will make identifying close contacts difficult. Testing capacity would be ramped up nationwide. A nationwide Alert Level change is possible. Events may be cancelled, and New Zealanders may be asked to stay where they are in their bubble while they wait for official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. --- Section Separator --- Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan COVID-19 data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases
The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. Make a direct request for official information Customs New Zealand Department for the Prime Minister and Cabinet Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Ministry of Health --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. This includes papers, minutes, Official Information Act requests (OIAs) and key advice. These documents are proactively released in keeping with the Official Information Act 1982. --- Section Separator --- A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Section 9(2)(f)(iv) — confidential advice Section 9(2)(ba)(ii) — information provided to the Government under an obligation of confidence Section 6(a) — international relations Section 9(2)(j) — commercial negotiations.
Home Alert Levels and updates Proactive releases Alert Levels and restrictions --- Section Separator --- Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Alert Levels and updates Proactive releases Border --- Section Separator --- Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Alert Levels and updates Proactive releases Education --- Section Separator --- Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Alert Levels and updates Proactive releases Health response --- Section Separator --- Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Alert Levels and updates Proactive releases Housing --- Section Separator --- Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Alert Levels and updates Proactive releases Income support measures --- Section Separator --- Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Alert Levels and updates Proactive releases Offshore issues --- Section Separator --- There are no documents in the “Offshore issues” category for the 9 October 2020 proactive release. --- Section Separator --- There are no documents in the “Offshore issues” category for the 9 October 2020 proactive release. --- Section Separator --- Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Alert Levels and updates Proactive releases Research --- Section Separator --- Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Alert Levels and updates Proactive releases Reviews and audits --- Section Separator --- Rapid Review of Initial Operating Model and Organisational Arrangments for the National Response to COVID-19 [PDF, 1.1 MB] (external link) Second rapid review of the COVID-19 all-of-government response [PDF, 1.7 MB] (external link) Dr Ayesha Verrall’s audit of the contact tracing system (external link) Draft Report of the Advisory Committee to Oversee the Implementation of the New Zealand COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy – September 2020 [PDF, 230 KB] (external link) Progress against the review of surveillance, testing and contact tracing [PDF, 1.2 MB] (external link) View documents from the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group --- Section Separator --- Rapid Review of Initial Operating Model and Organisational Arrangments for the National Response to COVID-19 [PDF, 1.1 MB] (external link) Second rapid review of the COVID-19 all-of-government response [PDF, 1.7 MB] (external link) --- Section Separator --- Dr Ayesha Verrall’s audit of the contact tracing system (external link) Draft Report of the Advisory Committee to Oversee the Implementation of the New Zealand COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy – September 2020 [PDF, 230 KB] (external link) Progress against the review of surveillance, testing and contact tracing [PDF, 1.2 MB] (external link) --- Section Separator --- View documents from the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group --- Section Separator --- Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Alert Levels and updates Proactive releases Supporting the economy --- Section Separator --- Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home Alert Levels and updates Proactive releases Wage subsidy and leave schemes --- Section Separator --- Alert Levels and restrictions Border Education Health response Housing Income support measures Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Supporting the economy Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Alert Level boundaries help stop the spread of the virus. Learn more about the Alert Level boundaries in your region. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level boundaries help stop the spread of the virus. Learn more about the Alert Level boundaries in your region.
Home Alert Levels and updates Social media and newsletters --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) We’re here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have two simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. Get Unite against COVID-19 tiles you can use on your social media. Social media tiles Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) We’re here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have two simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. Get Unite against COVID-19 tiles you can use on your social media. Social media tiles --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan COVID-19 data and statistics Social media and newsletters COVID-19 compliance Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases
Home Business and money Businesses Doing business at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Talk with your workers about how you will keep them and others safe from exposure to COVID-19. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold or flu-like symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Keep groups of customers at least 1 metre apart, or 2 metres for retail businesses. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend workers wear a face covering if they are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Follow all other health and safety obligations. At Alert Level 2, businesses can have customers on their premises. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help . Retail businesses, including malls, markets and takeaway shops legally must: keep customers 2 metres apart display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. There is no limit on the number of customers allowed in a store, as long as they can keep 2 metres apart at all times. Public facilities include: swimming pools and gyms libraries museums. There is no limit on the number of people that can be inside a public facility, if people can safely be 1 metre apart. All public facilities legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each  location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. Event facilities include: cinemas, theatres, stadiums, concert venues conference venues casinos. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This may mean the facility needs to have less than 100 people in a defined space. All event facilities legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each  location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. For dine-in customers, restaurants, cafes and bars legally must: have no more than 100 people in a defined space have customers seated keep groups of attendees separated 1 metre apart have a single server per group, where practical display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code have an alternate contact tracing system for customers and workers. While we recommend each table having a single server, each server can cover multiple tables. People can order and collect from a counter, except for on-licence and club-licence premises. Businesses can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. This include personal keep cups and in-house reusable coffee cup schemes. If you decide to allow resuable cups, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. Advice for eating out and getting takeaways safely Advice for going out to a bar or night club A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: hairdressers home help providers. These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place including: keeping contact tracing registers keeping customers 1 metre apart, including while they are waiting good hygiene practices disinfecting surfaces in between customers. You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. This includes posters, signs and stickers. Order free posters, signs and other resources Business.govt.nz has sector specific information for businesses that can operate during different Alert Levels Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe has guidance on operating safely at all alert levels, including setting up a COVID-19 safety plan. Your COVID-19 safety plan (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Talk with your workers about how you will keep them and others safe from exposure to COVID-19. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold or flu-like symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Keep groups of customers at least 1 metre apart, or 2 metres for retail businesses. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend workers wear a face covering if they are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Follow all other health and safety obligations. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, businesses can have customers on their premises. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help . Retail businesses, including malls, markets and takeaway shops legally must: keep customers 2 metres apart display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. There is no limit on the number of customers allowed in a store, as long as they can keep 2 metres apart at all times. Public facilities include: swimming pools and gyms libraries museums. There is no limit on the number of people that can be inside a public facility, if people can safely be 1 metre apart. All public facilities legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each  location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. Event facilities include: cinemas, theatres, stadiums, concert venues conference venues casinos. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This may mean the facility needs to have less than 100 people in a defined space. All event facilities legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each  location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. For dine-in customers, restaurants, cafes and bars legally must: have no more than 100 people in a defined space have customers seated keep groups of attendees separated 1 metre apart have a single server per group, where practical display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code have an alternate contact tracing system for customers and workers. While we recommend each table having a single server, each server can cover multiple tables. People can order and collect from a counter, except for on-licence and club-licence premises. Businesses can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. This include personal keep cups and in-house reusable coffee cup schemes. If you decide to allow resuable cups, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. Advice for eating out and getting takeaways safely Advice for going out to a bar or night club A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: hairdressers home help providers. These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place including: keeping contact tracing registers keeping customers 1 metre apart, including while they are waiting good hygiene practices disinfecting surfaces in between customers. --- Section Separator --- You can order free printed resources through our website to help your workplace or business operate safely. This includes posters, signs and stickers. Order free posters, signs and other resources --- Section Separator --- Business.govt.nz has sector specific information for businesses that can operate during different Alert Levels Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe has guidance on operating safely at all alert levels, including setting up a COVID-19 safety plan. Your COVID-19 safety plan (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Find out what financial support businesses, and individuals and whānau could access. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who cannot return home and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support. Information to help you access or pay for accommodation. --- Section Separator --- Find out what financial support businesses, and individuals and whānau could access. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who cannot return home and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support. Information to help you access or pay for accommodation.
Home Business and money Financial support Businesses --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances such as: your work status, for example, employer your situation, for example your business is unable to operate if your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool The COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment helps businesses directly affected when there’s an increase to Alert Level 2 or higher for a week or more. The payment helps to cover wages and fixed costs. To be eligible, your business must have experienced at least a 30% drop in revenue or a 30% decline in capital-raising ability over a 7-day period, due to an increase in Alert Levels. You can receive $1,500 per business plus $400 per full-time employee ( FTE), up to 50 FTE. The maximum payment is $21,500. If you're a sole trader, you can receive a payment of up to $1,900. Businesses and sole traders affected by the latest Alert Level increase in the Wellington region can apply for the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment if they meet the criteria. The Resurgence Support Payment is available nationally. This means businesses outside the Wellington region can also apply. Find out more information about the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment helps businesses and self-employed people to pay their employees who cannot work from home while they wait for a COVID-19 test result. This includes employees on casual contracts. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. You can apply for it once for each eligible employee in any 30-day period. However, you can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells them to get another test. Your business should encourage employees to call Healthline or talk to their doctor if they are unwell. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons and cannot work from home. If your employees have been advised to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. You can also apply if you are self-employed. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If your employees need to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment is available. The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be in place if there is an escalation to Alert Level 3 or 4 anywhere in New Zealand for 7 days or more. Wage subsidies support employers and self-employed people to keep paying employees and protect jobs affected by Alert Level changes. Information on the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) (external link) Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: greater flexibility for taxpayers in respect of statutory tax deadlines changes to the tax loss continuity rules a tax loss carry-back scheme measures to support commercial tenants and landlords further business consultancy support. Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) Organisations and small-to-medium businesses, including sole traders and the self-employed, may be eligible for a one-off loan with a term of 5 years if they have been adversely affected by COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme provides assistance to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. The maximum amount that can be borrowed is $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee and only one amount can be drawn down. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within 2 years. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Applications are open until 31 December 2023. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) Support will be available to employers of first-year and second-year apprentices in a Tertiary Education Commission-approved New Zealand Apprenticeship or Managed Apprenticeship programme. The amount that can be claimed will vary depending on when an apprentice started their training programme and when they reach 24 months. Employers can claim: $1,000 a month for eligible apprentices in the first 12 months of their training programme $500 a month in the second 12 months of their training programme. Funding will be available until April 2022. Employers are required to top up the funding they receive to ensure their apprentices receive at least the minimum or training wage they are legally entitled to. Apprenticeship Boost initiative, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances such as: your work status, for example, employer your situation, for example your business is unable to operate if your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment helps businesses directly affected when there’s an increase to Alert Level 2 or higher for a week or more. The payment helps to cover wages and fixed costs. To be eligible, your business must have experienced at least a 30% drop in revenue or a 30% decline in capital-raising ability over a 7-day period, due to an increase in Alert Levels. You can receive $1,500 per business plus $400 per full-time employee ( FTE), up to 50 FTE. The maximum payment is $21,500. If you're a sole trader, you can receive a payment of up to $1,900. Businesses and sole traders affected by the latest Alert Level increase in the Wellington region can apply for the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment if they meet the criteria. The Resurgence Support Payment is available nationally. This means businesses outside the Wellington region can also apply. Find out more information about the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment helps businesses and self-employed people to pay their employees who cannot work from home while they wait for a COVID-19 test result. This includes employees on casual contracts. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. You can apply for it once for each eligible employee in any 30-day period. However, you can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells them to get another test. Your business should encourage employees to call Healthline or talk to their doctor if they are unwell. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons and cannot work from home. --- Section Separator --- If your employees have been advised to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. You can also apply if you are self-employed. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If your employees need to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment is available. --- Section Separator --- The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be in place if there is an escalation to Alert Level 3 or 4 anywhere in New Zealand for 7 days or more. Wage subsidies support employers and self-employed people to keep paying employees and protect jobs affected by Alert Level changes. Information on the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: greater flexibility for taxpayers in respect of statutory tax deadlines changes to the tax loss continuity rules a tax loss carry-back scheme measures to support commercial tenants and landlords further business consultancy support. Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) --- Section Separator --- Organisations and small-to-medium businesses, including sole traders and the self-employed, may be eligible for a one-off loan with a term of 5 years if they have been adversely affected by COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme provides assistance to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. The maximum amount that can be borrowed is $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee and only one amount can be drawn down. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within 2 years. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Applications are open until 31 December 2023. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) --- Section Separator --- Support will be available to employers of first-year and second-year apprentices in a Tertiary Education Commission-approved New Zealand Apprenticeship or Managed Apprenticeship programme. The amount that can be claimed will vary depending on when an apprentice started their training programme and when they reach 24 months. Employers can claim: $1,000 a month for eligible apprentices in the first 12 months of their training programme $500 a month in the second 12 months of their training programme. Funding will be available until April 2022. Employers are required to top up the funding they receive to ensure their apprentices receive at least the minimum or training wage they are legally entitled to. Apprenticeship Boost initiative, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Individuals and whānau Businesses Foreign nationals stranded in NZ Communities and clubs If you need help with accommodation
Home Business and money Financial support If you need help with accommodation --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Individuals and whānau Businesses Foreign nationals stranded in NZ Communities and clubs If you need help with accommodation
The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. You might be interested in Book a vaccination appointment Group 3 vaccinations If you have not been contacted Pfizer vaccine Pregnancy and breastfeeding Delta variant Side effects Border worker vaccinations Karawhiua — information for Māori communities --- Section Separator --- Mandatory vaccinations for border and MIQ workers Vaccinating the border workforce has always been a priority of the COVID-19 vaccine rollout — this is because border workers are at the greatest risk of exposure to, and subsequent transmission of, COVID-19. Making it mandatory for certain work at the border to be performed only by vaccinated workers is part of our precautionary approach to use all our available measures to keep workers, their whānau and our communities safe from COVID-19. The Amendment Order will come into effect at 11:59pm on 14 July 2021. Government makes COVID-19 vaccinations compulsory for more border workers More information for border and MIQ workers --- Section Separator --- Your DHB is organising vaccinations for your region. Find out when you can get vaccinated and how to book. We’re rolling out the vaccine in stages. Learn about our plan, who's in each group and get useful vaccine resources. How COVID-19 vaccines are developed and approved, vaccine side effects and safety monitoring. --- Section Separator --- Last updated 7 July 2021 How many people have been vaccinated in New Zealand so far. 768,867 First dose administered 768,867 First dose administered 501,852 Second dose administered 501,852 Second dose administered --- Section Separator --- When you get vaccinated, you’re not just protecting yourself. You’re also doing your bit by reducing the risk of passing on COVID-19 to your whānau, friends and community. --- Section Separator --- Ka kite, COVID — we're getting immunity Dr Ashley Bloomfield on the safety standards of the Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine Dr Ian Town explains how the mRNA vaccine works Aotearoa's first border worker is vaccinated against COVID-19 | Ministry of Health NZ Dr Ashley Bloomfield and MedSafe's Chris James talk about vaccine approvals COVID-19 vaccines: A kōrero with Dr Helen Petousis-Harris
Find advice about the Pfizer vaccine for specific groups and health conditions. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their free COVID-19 vaccinations. Answer these questions to find out what group you’re in. When and how you schedule your COVID-19 vaccinations will depend on which group you're in. Different regions will start at different times. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out what to do if you need to travel overseas on compassionate grounds or for reasons of national significance. Information for businesses and workers about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Find advice about the Pfizer vaccine for specific groups and health conditions. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their free COVID-19 vaccinations. Answer these questions to find out what group you’re in. When and how you schedule your COVID-19 vaccinations will depend on which group you're in. Different regions will start at different times. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out what to do if you need to travel overseas on compassionate grounds or for reasons of national significance. Information for businesses and workers about COVID-19 vaccination.
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Apply for an early vaccination --- Section Separator --- You can apply for an early vaccine on compassionate grounds if you need to travel overseas to: access critical medical care that is not available in New Zealand for yourself or a dependant (for example, your child) visit an immediate family member who is dying provide critical care and protection for a dependant . You may be eligible for an early vaccine if you need to travel overseas to: protect the safety and security of New Zealand’s right to govern itself be involved in Government-approved humanitarian efforts as part of New Zealand’s commitments to foreign aid, international disaster responses, or supporting Pacific and Realm countries to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic participate in major international events where travel is necessary to represent New Zealand be involved in nationally significant trade negotiations. The relevant agency or association will apply on your behalf. If you are travelling overseas before 31 August , you can apply online for an early vaccine through the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an early vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can apply for an early vaccine on compassionate grounds if you need to travel overseas to: access critical medical care that is not available in New Zealand for yourself or a dependant (for example, your child) visit an immediate family member who is dying provide critical care and protection for a dependant . --- Section Separator --- You may be eligible for an early vaccine if you need to travel overseas to: protect the safety and security of New Zealand’s right to govern itself be involved in Government-approved humanitarian efforts as part of New Zealand’s commitments to foreign aid, international disaster responses, or supporting Pacific and Realm countries to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic participate in major international events where travel is necessary to represent New Zealand be involved in nationally significant trade negotiations. The relevant agency or association will apply on your behalf. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling overseas before 31 August , you can apply online for an early vaccine through the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an early vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Who can get a vaccination Find out what group you're in How to book your vaccination appointments What to expect when you get your vaccinations Apply for an early vaccination Vaccinations and work
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination How to book your vaccination appointments --- Section Separator --- When and how you schedule your COVID-19 vaccinations will depend on which group you're in. Different regions will start at different times. At the moment we're vaccinating: Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 Vaccinations for Group 4 will start from 28 July. Find out what group you’re in Advice for people with a health condition or concern If you're a border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) worker, we'll confirm your contact details through our records and your employer. Your district health board (DHB) will then contact you about making an appointment. If you’re a border or MIQ worker and have not been contacted about booking your vaccinations, talk to your employer. If you live with a border or MIQ worker and have not been contacted, call Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 to confirm if your details are in the system. If you are required to be tested for COVID-19, you should be on the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR). Please ask your employer to check that your name and details (including date of birth, phone number and NHI number) are correctly entered into the BWTR. You can expect an invitation to be vaccinated from your employer, district health board (DHB) or health provider. Talk to your employer or contact your district health board (DHB). DHB vaccine rollout information You'll be invited to book your vaccinations by the end of July. There are well over 1 million people in this group, so you may not receive an invitation immediately. Vaccination appointments in your area are being managed by your district health board (DHB). Follow the instructions in your invitation to make your booking. Your DHB's website is the best source of general information. You cannot currently book a vaccination online through the Unite against COVID-19 website. For more information about Group 3 vaccinations in your area, visit your DHB's website. DHB vaccine rollout information The vaccine rollout for Group 4 will be in age bands and will start on 28 July. The first age band is people aged 60 years and over — they will be able to book their vaccinations from 28 July. The next age band is people aged 55 and over — bookings for this age band will open 2 weeks later, on 11 August. Depending on vaccine supply and progress with other age groups, invitations will open up to people over 45 years from mid to late August, and from mid to late September for people 35 plus. Everyone else will be eligible from October. Once it’s your turn, you can be vaccinated at any time — there’s no cut-off. You can expect to get an invitation to book your vaccination — either by email, text, phone call or in the post . You will be able to book through the new national booking system, Book My Vaccine, or by phoning the national vaccination booking 0800 number. Book My Vaccine and the 0800 number will be live from 28 July. You can register your details on Book My Vaccine any time from 28 July. This means that when it’s your turn, we will have your most up-to-date contact details and can send you an invitation to book your vaccinations. Book My Vaccine coming in July When your vaccine appointment is confirmed, you’ll get instructions on what to do if you need to reschedule or cancel your appointment for any reason. If you’re unwell and cannot make your appointment, you’ll need to reschedule it as soon as possible. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, get a test and stay at home until you get your results. You can be vaccinated once you have a negative test. As well as booked appointments, there will be other ways for people to be vaccinated. These will include workplace vaccinations and other targeted vaccination events across the country. For some remote rural communities we will vaccinate all age groups at the same time to make it easier for them. Our whānau-centred approach to vaccinations will continue for Māori and Pacific communities and those with disabilities. Book My Vaccine What to expect when you get your vaccinations Find out when you can get a vaccine Vaccine rollout groups --- Section Separator --- When and how you schedule your COVID-19 vaccinations will depend on which group you're in. Different regions will start at different times. At the moment we're vaccinating: Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 Vaccinations for Group 4 will start from 28 July. Find out what group you’re in Advice for people with a health condition or concern --- Section Separator --- If you're a border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) worker, we'll confirm your contact details through our records and your employer. Your district health board (DHB) will then contact you about making an appointment. If you’re a border or MIQ worker and have not been contacted about booking your vaccinations, talk to your employer. If you live with a border or MIQ worker and have not been contacted, call Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 to confirm if your details are in the system. If you are required to be tested for COVID-19, you should be on the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR). Please ask your employer to check that your name and details (including date of birth, phone number and NHI number) are correctly entered into the BWTR. --- Section Separator --- You can expect an invitation to be vaccinated from your employer, district health board (DHB) or health provider. Talk to your employer or contact your district health board (DHB). DHB vaccine rollout information --- Section Separator --- You'll be invited to book your vaccinations by the end of July. There are well over 1 million people in this group, so you may not receive an invitation immediately. Vaccination appointments in your area are being managed by your district health board (DHB). Follow the instructions in your invitation to make your booking. Your DHB's website is the best source of general information. You cannot currently book a vaccination online through the Unite against COVID-19 website. For more information about Group 3 vaccinations in your area, visit your DHB's website. DHB vaccine rollout information --- Section Separator --- The vaccine rollout for Group 4 will be in age bands and will start on 28 July. The first age band is people aged 60 years and over — they will be able to book their vaccinations from 28 July. The next age band is people aged 55 and over — bookings for this age band will open 2 weeks later, on 11 August. Depending on vaccine supply and progress with other age groups, invitations will open up to people over 45 years from mid to late August, and from mid to late September for people 35 plus. Everyone else will be eligible from October. Once it’s your turn, you can be vaccinated at any time — there’s no cut-off. You can expect to get an invitation to book your vaccination — either by email, text, phone call or in the post . You will be able to book through the new national booking system, Book My Vaccine, or by phoning the national vaccination booking 0800 number. Book My Vaccine and the 0800 number will be live from 28 July. You can register your details on Book My Vaccine any time from 28 July. This means that when it’s your turn, we will have your most up-to-date contact details and can send you an invitation to book your vaccinations. Book My Vaccine coming in July --- Section Separator --- When your vaccine appointment is confirmed, you’ll get instructions on what to do if you need to reschedule or cancel your appointment for any reason. If you’re unwell and cannot make your appointment, you’ll need to reschedule it as soon as possible. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, get a test and stay at home until you get your results. You can be vaccinated once you have a negative test. --- Section Separator --- As well as booked appointments, there will be other ways for people to be vaccinated. These will include workplace vaccinations and other targeted vaccination events across the country. For some remote rural communities we will vaccinate all age groups at the same time to make it easier for them. Our whānau-centred approach to vaccinations will continue for Māori and Pacific communities and those with disabilities. --- Section Separator --- Book My Vaccine What to expect when you get your vaccinations Find out when you can get a vaccine Vaccine rollout groups --- Section Separator --- Who can get a vaccination Find out what group you're in How to book your vaccination appointments Booking a vaccination through your DHB Book My Vaccine Booking a vaccination through your DHB Book My Vaccine What to expect when you get your vaccinations Apply for an early vaccination Vaccinations and work
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination How to book your vaccination appointments Book My Vaccine --- Section Separator --- We'll start vaccinating Group 4 from 28 July, starting with those aged 60 years and over, and then, from August 11, people aged 55 years and over. Everyone else will follow in age bands through until the end of 2021. When it's your turn to get vaccinated, you can expect to receive an invitation to book a vaccination appointment. You'll be able to book using the new national booking system, Book My Vaccine, or by phoning the national booking 0800 number. Book My Vaccine and the 0800 number will be live from 28 July. Once it’s your turn, you can be vaccinated at any time — there’s no cut off. People waiting for their age band to start will be able to register their details on Book My Vaccine from 28 July. Once bookings are open for your age band, you will get an email or text letting you know it’s your turn to book. When and how you schedule your COVID-19 vaccination appointments will depend on which group you're in. Different regions will start at different times. How to book your vaccination appointments Find out when you can get a vaccine Vaccine rollout groups --- Section Separator --- We'll start vaccinating Group 4 from 28 July, starting with those aged 60 years and over, and then, from August 11, people aged 55 years and over. Everyone else will follow in age bands through until the end of 2021. When it's your turn to get vaccinated, you can expect to receive an invitation to book a vaccination appointment. You'll be able to book using the new national booking system, Book My Vaccine, or by phoning the national booking 0800 number. Book My Vaccine and the 0800 number will be live from 28 July. Once it’s your turn, you can be vaccinated at any time — there’s no cut off. People waiting for their age band to start will be able to register their details on Book My Vaccine from 28 July. Once bookings are open for your age band, you will get an email or text letting you know it’s your turn to book. When and how you schedule your COVID-19 vaccination appointments will depend on which group you're in. Different regions will start at different times. How to book your vaccination appointments --- Section Separator --- Find out when you can get a vaccine Vaccine rollout groups --- Section Separator --- Who can get a vaccination Find out what group you're in How to book your vaccination appointments Booking a vaccination through your DHB Book My Vaccine Booking a vaccination through your DHB Book My Vaccine What to expect when you get your vaccinations Apply for an early vaccination Vaccinations and work
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination How to book your vaccination appointments Booking a vaccination through your DHB --- Section Separator --- Each district health board (DHB) around New Zealand is managing the rollout of the vaccine in their area. Exactly how and when people in each group are contacted may differ between regions. Where you can get your vaccinations will also depend on where you live, but could include: community vaccination centres marae churches large workplaces GPs and pharmacies. If you're not sure which district health board (DHB) provides services for your area, check the Ministry of Health website. Ministry of Health — My DHB (external link) You can find more information about how vaccination bookings work in your area on the website of your district health board (DHB). Auckland District Health Board (external link) Bay of Plenty District Health Board (external link) Capital & Coast District Health Board (external link) Counties Manukau District Health Board (external link) Hawke's Bay District Health Board (external link) (external link) Hutt Valley District Health Board (external link) (external link) Lakes District Health Board (external link) Mid Central District Health Board (external link) Northland District Health Board (external link) Tairāwhiti District Health Board (external link) Taranaki District Health Board (external link) Waikato District Health Board (external link) Wairarapa District Health Board (external link) Waitematā District Health Board (external link) Whanganui District Health Board (external link) Canterbury District Health Board (external link) Nelson-Marlborough District Health Board (external link) South Canterbury District Health Board (external link) (external link) Southern District Health Board (external link) West Coast District Health Board (external link) Vaccine rollout groups Find out when you can get a vaccine --- Section Separator --- Each district health board (DHB) around New Zealand is managing the rollout of the vaccine in their area. Exactly how and when people in each group are contacted may differ between regions. Where you can get your vaccinations will also depend on where you live, but could include: community vaccination centres marae churches large workplaces GPs and pharmacies. If you're not sure which district health board (DHB) provides services for your area, check the Ministry of Health website. Ministry of Health — My DHB (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can find more information about how vaccination bookings work in your area on the website of your district health board (DHB). Auckland District Health Board (external link) Bay of Plenty District Health Board (external link) Capital & Coast District Health Board (external link) Counties Manukau District Health Board (external link) Hawke's Bay District Health Board (external link) (external link) Hutt Valley District Health Board (external link) (external link) Lakes District Health Board (external link) Mid Central District Health Board (external link) Northland District Health Board (external link) Tairāwhiti District Health Board (external link) Taranaki District Health Board (external link) Waikato District Health Board (external link) Wairarapa District Health Board (external link) Waitematā District Health Board (external link) Whanganui District Health Board (external link) Canterbury District Health Board (external link) Nelson-Marlborough District Health Board (external link) South Canterbury District Health Board (external link) (external link) Southern District Health Board (external link) West Coast District Health Board (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccine rollout groups Find out when you can get a vaccine --- Section Separator --- Who can get a vaccination Find out what group you're in How to book your vaccination appointments Booking a vaccination through your DHB Book My Vaccine Booking a vaccination through your DHB Book My Vaccine What to expect when you get your vaccinations Apply for an early vaccination Vaccinations and work
Answer these questions to find out if you're in Group 1, 2, 3 or 4. What group you're in for your vaccinations will depend on your age and situation. People at greater risk are being vaccinated first. Once it’s your turn, you can be vaccinated at any time — there’s no cut-off. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination is free, voluntary and available to everyone in Aotearoa aged 16 and over. When you get vaccinated, you’re not just protecting yourself. You’re also doing your bit by reducing the risk of passing on COVID-19 to your whānau, friends and community. COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know
It is now mandatory for workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings to get vaccinated against COVID-19. Find out who’s affected and what they need to do. --- Section Separator --- It is now mandatory for workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings to get vaccinated against COVID-19. Find out who’s affected and what they need to do.
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Vaccinations and work Border and MIQ worker vaccinations --- Section Separator --- On 1 May 2021, it became mandatory for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. From 15 July 2021, it will also become mandatory for most border workers (air and port) to be vaccinated. This is required by new legislation. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Amendments Order 2021 comes into effect at 11:59pm on 14 July. All workers who are required to be tested for COVID-19 on either a 7-day or 14-day schedule will now also be required to get vaccinated before they perform that work. The expanded Order applies to people working at: managed isolation and quarantine facilities (MQIFs) and managed isolation facilities (MIFs) airside area of affected airports and some other higher-risk work at airports affected ports accommodation services where specified aircrew members are self-isolating. It also includes people doing work that: involves handling affected items removed from ships, aircraft or MIQFs or MIFs is for a company that is routinely engaged to provide services for an aircraft, ship, MIQF or MIF and has contact with people who belong to different groups in the Order. All government employees must have had their first dose by 26 August 2021. Privately employed border workers must have had their first dose by 30 September 2021. New workers covered by the Order will need to have their first dose before starting work. This applies to government and private business employees. Border workers who remain unvaccinated after the requirements come into effect will need to discuss options with their employer. They will not be able to continue working in a high-risk border environment until they vaccinated. Affected workers who have not yet received their vaccinations will have priority when scheduling their appointments. To organise a vaccination for yourself or eligible staff, contact your local DHB directly. Contact your local DHB to organise a vaccination You can also book through the Ministry of Health using a dedicated email address. Employers can use this to submit contact lists for any staff who are not yet in the system, and workers can also do the same for themselves or their close contacts. Email: bordersectorvaccinations@health.govt.nz Email: BWTRsupport@health.govt.nz To prevent the virus coming into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting all of the people who work there. Alongside workers at MIQ facilities, workers at our ports and border are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19. COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 – Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccines and the workplace — Employment New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- On 1 May 2021, it became mandatory for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. From 15 July 2021, it will also become mandatory for most border workers (air and port) to be vaccinated. This is required by new legislation. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Amendments Order 2021 comes into effect at 11:59pm on 14 July. --- Section Separator --- All workers who are required to be tested for COVID-19 on either a 7-day or 14-day schedule will now also be required to get vaccinated before they perform that work. The expanded Order applies to people working at: managed isolation and quarantine facilities (MQIFs) and managed isolation facilities (MIFs) airside area of affected airports and some other higher-risk work at airports affected ports accommodation services where specified aircrew members are self-isolating. It also includes people doing work that: involves handling affected items removed from ships, aircraft or MIQFs or MIFs is for a company that is routinely engaged to provide services for an aircraft, ship, MIQF or MIF and has contact with people who belong to different groups in the Order. --- Section Separator --- All government employees must have had their first dose by 26 August 2021. Privately employed border workers must have had their first dose by 30 September 2021. New workers covered by the Order will need to have their first dose before starting work. This applies to government and private business employees. --- Section Separator --- Border workers who remain unvaccinated after the requirements come into effect will need to discuss options with their employer. They will not be able to continue working in a high-risk border environment until they vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Affected workers who have not yet received their vaccinations will have priority when scheduling their appointments. To organise a vaccination for yourself or eligible staff, contact your local DHB directly. Contact your local DHB to organise a vaccination You can also book through the Ministry of Health using a dedicated email address. Employers can use this to submit contact lists for any staff who are not yet in the system, and workers can also do the same for themselves or their close contacts. Email: bordersectorvaccinations@health.govt.nz Email: BWTRsupport@health.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- To prevent the virus coming into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting all of the people who work there. Alongside workers at MIQ facilities, workers at our ports and border are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 – Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccines and the workplace — Employment New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Who can get a vaccination Find out what group you're in How to book your vaccination appointments What to expect when you get your vaccinations Apply for an early vaccination Vaccinations and work Border and MIQ worker vaccinations Border and MIQ worker vaccinations
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccinations --- Section Separator --- When and how you book your COVID-19 vaccinations will depend on what group you're in. Booking your COVID-19 vaccination appointments You may need to wait before getting other vaccines (like the flu or MMR vaccine). Getting other vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You'll be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you don't need to show photo ID) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. Note: If you're in Group 1, you will be asked to give written consent. This was the original consent process. The vaccine and your privacy (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You’ll need to stay for at least 20 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you’re okay. We'll record information about your COVID-19 immunisations in our COVID Immunisation Register. You’ll be given a card that shows the date you've been vaccinated and the batch number. Getting 2 doses of the vaccine, at least 21 days apart, is important to give you the best protection. Check your second vaccination is booked and keep a note of where and when it will take place. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect [PDF, 142 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine — simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] After your immunisation [PDF, 86 KB] COVID-19 vaccines privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] The Pfizer vaccine is the only COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in New Zealand. We have secured 10 million doses – enough for 5 million people to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: is a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine does not contain any live virus, or dead or deactivated virus can't give you COVID-19 can't affect your DNA does not contain any animal products. You’ll need to get your second dose of the vaccine at least 21 days (3 weeks) after your first dose. How the vaccine works — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) Other vaccines we've agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Vaccination side effects You’ll need to get your second dose of the vaccine at least 21 days (3 weeks) after your first dose. Getting 2 doses of the vaccine is important to give you the best protection. To book your second vaccination, contact your local district health board (DHB). If you can’t make your appointment, reschedule as soon as possible. DHB vaccine rollout information and contact details When your vaccine appointment is confirmed, you’ll get instructions on what to do if you need to reschedule or cancel your appointment for any reason. If you’re unwell and cannot make your appointment, you’ll need to reschedule it as soon as possible. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, get a test and stay at home until you get your results. You can be vaccinated once you have a negative test. Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. This means that once you're fully vaccinated, you're far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it's important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your GP or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- When and how you book your COVID-19 vaccinations will depend on what group you're in. Booking your COVID-19 vaccination appointments You may need to wait before getting other vaccines (like the flu or MMR vaccine). Getting other vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You'll be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you don't need to show photo ID) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. Note: If you're in Group 1, you will be asked to give written consent. This was the original consent process. The vaccine and your privacy (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You’ll need to stay for at least 20 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you’re okay. We'll record information about your COVID-19 immunisations in our COVID Immunisation Register. You’ll be given a card that shows the date you've been vaccinated and the batch number. Getting 2 doses of the vaccine, at least 21 days apart, is important to give you the best protection. Check your second vaccination is booked and keep a note of where and when it will take place. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect [PDF, 142 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine — simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] After your immunisation [PDF, 86 KB] COVID-19 vaccines privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is the only COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in New Zealand. We have secured 10 million doses – enough for 5 million people to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: is a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine does not contain any live virus, or dead or deactivated virus can't give you COVID-19 can't affect your DNA does not contain any animal products. You’ll need to get your second dose of the vaccine at least 21 days (3 weeks) after your first dose. How the vaccine works — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) Other vaccines we've agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Vaccination side effects --- Section Separator --- You’ll need to get your second dose of the vaccine at least 21 days (3 weeks) after your first dose. Getting 2 doses of the vaccine is important to give you the best protection. To book your second vaccination, contact your local district health board (DHB). If you can’t make your appointment, reschedule as soon as possible. DHB vaccine rollout information and contact details --- Section Separator --- When your vaccine appointment is confirmed, you’ll get instructions on what to do if you need to reschedule or cancel your appointment for any reason. If you’re unwell and cannot make your appointment, you’ll need to reschedule it as soon as possible. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, get a test and stay at home until you get your results. You can be vaccinated once you have a negative test. --- Section Separator --- Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. This means that once you're fully vaccinated, you're far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it's important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your GP or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Who can get a vaccination Find out what group you're in How to book your vaccination appointments What to expect when you get your vaccinations Apply for an early vaccination Vaccinations and work
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Who can get a vaccination --- Section Separator --- You’ll be offered the vaccine if you’re aged 16 or over — it doesn’t matter what your visa or citizenship status is. We’ll have enough of the Pfizer vaccine for everyone to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination People under the age of 16 are not able to get the Pfizer vaccine at this stage. Medsafe has given provisional approval of the Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 years. Cabinet is awaiting advice and guidance about when and how to use Pfizer for those aged 12 to 15 within the vaccine rollout. Until then, people aged 12 to 15 cannot receive the Pfizer vaccine. It will not be mandatory for young people to get vaccinated. Provisional approval for Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 (external link) The Pfizer vaccine has been shown to be highly effective and safe in people aged over 65 years. Everyone aged 65 and over can get early access to the vaccine as part of Group 3. How to book a vaccination if you're in Group 3 Consistently high efficacy of over 92% was observed in the clinical trials for the Pfizer vaccine across age, sex, race, ethnicity, and people with underlying medical conditions. Vaccine advice for people with underlying health conditions — Ministry of Health (external link) People with certain underlying health conditions can get early access to the vaccine as part of Group 3. If you're aged 16 and over and disabled, you can get early access to the vaccine as part of Group 2 or Group 3. Find out more about Group 2 and Group 3 Vaccine advice for disabled people — Ministry of Health (external link) If you’ve had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your vaccinator. You shouldn’t get the Pfizer vaccine if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer vaccine. What’s in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) If you’re unwell on the day of your appointment or have a fever over 38°C, it’s important to delay your COVID-19 vaccination until you’re feeling better. When your vaccine appointment is confirmed, you’ll get instructions on what to do if you need to reschedule or cancel your appointment for any reason. For information about when you should get your flu, MMR and pregnancy vaccinations if you're also getting a COVID-19 vaccination, visit the Ministry of Health website. Getting other vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) A range of COVID-19 vaccines are being used internationally, including Pfizer (which is being used in New Zealand), AstraZeneca, Moderna and Janssen. You can get a COVID-19 vaccine as part of Group 3 at any stage of your pregnancy. We encourage you to get the vaccine because while you’re pregnant you can become very sick if you get COVID-19. There are no safety concerns about getting the Pfizer vaccine while you are breastfeeding. Vaccine advice for people who are pregnant or breastfeeding — Ministry of Health (external link) For advice about getting the Pfizer vaccine, talk to your GP or other healthcare professional. The Ministry of Health website has information about getting vaccinated for people who are: taking antibiotics immunocompromised receiving cancer treatment living with HIV taking blood-thinning medication getting a CT scan getting a breast screen (mammogram). Underlying health conditions — Ministry of Health (external link) CT scans and mammograms — Ministry of Health (external link) Find out when you can get a vaccine How to book your vaccinations Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) --- Section Separator --- You’ll be offered the vaccine if you’re aged 16 or over — it doesn’t matter what your visa or citizenship status is. We’ll have enough of the Pfizer vaccine for everyone to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- People under the age of 16 are not able to get the Pfizer vaccine at this stage. Medsafe has given provisional approval of the Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 years. Cabinet is awaiting advice and guidance about when and how to use Pfizer for those aged 12 to 15 within the vaccine rollout. Until then, people aged 12 to 15 cannot receive the Pfizer vaccine. It will not be mandatory for young people to get vaccinated. Provisional approval for Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine has been shown to be highly effective and safe in people aged over 65 years. Everyone aged 65 and over can get early access to the vaccine as part of Group 3. How to book a vaccination if you're in Group 3 --- Section Separator --- Consistently high efficacy of over 92% was observed in the clinical trials for the Pfizer vaccine across age, sex, race, ethnicity, and people with underlying medical conditions. Vaccine advice for people with underlying health conditions — Ministry of Health (external link) People with certain underlying health conditions can get early access to the vaccine as part of Group 3. --- Section Separator --- If you're aged 16 and over and disabled, you can get early access to the vaccine as part of Group 2 or Group 3. Find out more about Group 2 and Group 3 Vaccine advice for disabled people — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’ve had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your vaccinator. You shouldn’t get the Pfizer vaccine if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer vaccine. What’s in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re unwell on the day of your appointment or have a fever over 38°C, it’s important to delay your COVID-19 vaccination until you’re feeling better. When your vaccine appointment is confirmed, you’ll get instructions on what to do if you need to reschedule or cancel your appointment for any reason. --- Section Separator --- For information about when you should get your flu, MMR and pregnancy vaccinations if you're also getting a COVID-19 vaccination, visit the Ministry of Health website. Getting other vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- A range of COVID-19 vaccines are being used internationally, including Pfizer (which is being used in New Zealand), AstraZeneca, Moderna and Janssen. --- Section Separator --- You can get a COVID-19 vaccine as part of Group 3 at any stage of your pregnancy. We encourage you to get the vaccine because while you’re pregnant you can become very sick if you get COVID-19. There are no safety concerns about getting the Pfizer vaccine while you are breastfeeding. Vaccine advice for people who are pregnant or breastfeeding — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- For advice about getting the Pfizer vaccine, talk to your GP or other healthcare professional. The Ministry of Health website has information about getting vaccinated for people who are: taking antibiotics immunocompromised receiving cancer treatment living with HIV taking blood-thinning medication getting a CT scan getting a breast screen (mammogram). Underlying health conditions — Ministry of Health (external link) CT scans and mammograms — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find out when you can get a vaccine How to book your vaccinations Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) --- Section Separator --- Who can get a vaccination Find out what group you're in How to book your vaccination appointments What to expect when you get your vaccinations Apply for an early vaccination Vaccinations and work
The COVID-19 vaccine is free, voluntary and available to everyone in Aotearoa aged 16 and over. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their COVID-19 vaccinations. Learn more about who’s in each group and when they can book their vaccinations. Download and share useful information about getting a COVID-19 vaccination and the vaccine rollout in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 vaccine is free, voluntary and available to everyone in Aotearoa aged 16 and over. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their COVID-19 vaccinations. Learn more about who’s in each group and when they can book their vaccinations. Download and share useful information about getting a COVID-19 vaccination and the vaccine rollout in New Zealand.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Our COVID-19 vaccination plan COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 vaccine is free and will be available to everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over. For most people, vaccination is voluntary. People who work at the border may need to get vaccinated to perform their role. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations It doesn't matter what your visa or citizenship status is. We will not use any information collected for immigration purposes. People under the age of 16 are not included for now. Vaccine advice for specific groups and health conditions Medsafe has given provisional approval of the Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 years Cabinet is awaiting advice and guidance about when and how to use Pfizer for those aged 12 to 15 within the vaccine rollout. Until then, people aged 12 to 15 cannot receive the Pfizer vaccine. It will not be mandatory for young people to get vaccinated. Provisional approval for Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 (external link) We’re rolling out the vaccine in stages. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 vaccine groups. First, we’ll protect those most at risk of catching COVID-19 in their workplace. This will reduce the risk of future outbreaks and lockdowns. Next, we’ll vaccinate people most at risk of getting seriously sick or dying if they get the virus. Finally, we’ll vaccinate everyone else in Aotearoa aged 16 and over. The vaccine is free for everyone and no one will miss out. Find out when you can get a vaccine If you need to travel overseas on compassionate grounds or for reasons of national significance, you may be able to apply for an early vaccination. How to apply for an early vaccination Your local district health board (DHB) is managing vaccinations in your area. When and how you book will depend on which group you're in. Different regions will start at different times. Vaccinations will be available at a range of locations, including pop-up centres, GPs, Māori and Pacific healthcare providers, mobile clinics and community clinics. How to book your vaccination appointments The COVID-19 vaccine is free to everyone in New Zealand. Do not share your bank details with anyone offering you the vaccine for a fee. COVID-19 vaccine scams The Pfizer vaccine is the only COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in New Zealand. We have secured 10 million doses – enough for 5 million people to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: is a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine does not contain any live virus, or dead or deactivated virus can't give you COVID-19 can't affect your DNA does not contain any animal products. You’ll need to get your second dose of the vaccine at least 21 days (3 weeks) after your first dose. How the vaccine works — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) Other vaccines we've agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Vaccination side effects New Zealand's medicines safety authority Medsafe assesses applications for all new medicines. This includes vaccines. For Medsafe to recommend approval for use in New Zealand, a medicine must meet international standards and local requirements for quality, safety and efficacy. This is the same process used to assess other medicines, like the flu vaccine. The Pfizer vaccine has been used successfully by millions worldwide. It continues to be monitored for safety. Vaccine development and safety Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. This means that once you're fully vaccinated, you're far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. The Delta variant is more readily transmitted than other variants but there is no evidence that it causes more severe disease. Data from England shows the Pfizer vaccine is highly effective against the Delta variant. Vaccine effectiveness and protection — Ministry of Health (external link) When you get vaccinated, you’re not just protecting yourself. You’re also doing your bit to protect your whānau, friends and community. Our plan is to: supply enough vaccines to protect Aotearoa and the Pacific protect Māori, Pacific peoples, and other groups at greater risk of COVID-19 make it easy for people to get vaccinated put safety first with all COVID-19 vaccines ensure we are prepared for future outbreaks support New Zealand’s contribution to global well-being. While all health providers are responsible for vaccinating the Māori and Pacific people in their communities, we know Māori and Pacific providers hold trusted relationships with the whānau they serve. We are partnering with Māori and Pacific providers so they can deliver tailored and targeted approaches to their communities as part of the wider COVID-19 vaccination programme rollout. Vaccine strategy and planning (external link) We’re seeking interest from those who’d like to be part of the COVID-19 vaccination workforce. Both paid and volunteer opportunities are available in various locations, and we’re looking for skills from both health and non-health backgrounds. Join the COVID-19 vaccination teams — Ministry of Health (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up for our COVID-19 vaccine newsletter Misinformation and scams COVID-19 vaccine data and statistics (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 vaccine is free and will be available to everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over. For most people, vaccination is voluntary. People who work at the border may need to get vaccinated to perform their role. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations It doesn't matter what your visa or citizenship status is. We will not use any information collected for immigration purposes. People under the age of 16 are not included for now. Vaccine advice for specific groups and health conditions --- Section Separator --- Medsafe has given provisional approval of the Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 years Cabinet is awaiting advice and guidance about when and how to use Pfizer for those aged 12 to 15 within the vaccine rollout. Until then, people aged 12 to 15 cannot receive the Pfizer vaccine. It will not be mandatory for young people to get vaccinated. Provisional approval for Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 (external link) --- Section Separator --- We’re rolling out the vaccine in stages. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 vaccine groups. First, we’ll protect those most at risk of catching COVID-19 in their workplace. This will reduce the risk of future outbreaks and lockdowns. Next, we’ll vaccinate people most at risk of getting seriously sick or dying if they get the virus. Finally, we’ll vaccinate everyone else in Aotearoa aged 16 and over. The vaccine is free for everyone and no one will miss out. Find out when you can get a vaccine If you need to travel overseas on compassionate grounds or for reasons of national significance, you may be able to apply for an early vaccination. How to apply for an early vaccination --- Section Separator --- Your local district health board (DHB) is managing vaccinations in your area. When and how you book will depend on which group you're in. Different regions will start at different times. Vaccinations will be available at a range of locations, including pop-up centres, GPs, Māori and Pacific healthcare providers, mobile clinics and community clinics. How to book your vaccination appointments --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 vaccine is free to everyone in New Zealand. Do not share your bank details with anyone offering you the vaccine for a fee. COVID-19 vaccine scams --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is the only COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in New Zealand. We have secured 10 million doses – enough for 5 million people to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: is a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine does not contain any live virus, or dead or deactivated virus can't give you COVID-19 can't affect your DNA does not contain any animal products. You’ll need to get your second dose of the vaccine at least 21 days (3 weeks) after your first dose. How the vaccine works — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) Other vaccines we've agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Vaccination side effects --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's medicines safety authority Medsafe assesses applications for all new medicines. This includes vaccines. For Medsafe to recommend approval for use in New Zealand, a medicine must meet international standards and local requirements for quality, safety and efficacy. This is the same process used to assess other medicines, like the flu vaccine. The Pfizer vaccine has been used successfully by millions worldwide. It continues to be monitored for safety. Vaccine development and safety Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. This means that once you're fully vaccinated, you're far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. The Delta variant is more readily transmitted than other variants but there is no evidence that it causes more severe disease. Data from England shows the Pfizer vaccine is highly effective against the Delta variant. Vaccine effectiveness and protection — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- When you get vaccinated, you’re not just protecting yourself. You’re also doing your bit to protect your whānau, friends and community. --- Section Separator --- Our plan is to: supply enough vaccines to protect Aotearoa and the Pacific protect Māori, Pacific peoples, and other groups at greater risk of COVID-19 make it easy for people to get vaccinated put safety first with all COVID-19 vaccines ensure we are prepared for future outbreaks support New Zealand’s contribution to global well-being. While all health providers are responsible for vaccinating the Māori and Pacific people in their communities, we know Māori and Pacific providers hold trusted relationships with the whānau they serve. We are partnering with Māori and Pacific providers so they can deliver tailored and targeted approaches to their communities as part of the wider COVID-19 vaccination programme rollout. Vaccine strategy and planning (external link) --- Section Separator --- We’re seeking interest from those who’d like to be part of the COVID-19 vaccination workforce. Both paid and volunteer opportunities are available in various locations, and we’re looking for skills from both health and non-health backgrounds. Join the COVID-19 vaccination teams — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up for our COVID-19 vaccine newsletter --- Section Separator --- Misinformation and scams COVID-19 vaccine data and statistics (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know Vaccine rollout groups Fact sheets
Home COVID-19 vaccines Our COVID-19 vaccination plan Fact sheets --- Section Separator --- We've translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 774 KB] Information about the COVID-19 vaccine rollout and how to get your vaccination. Our COVID-19 vaccination plan [PDF, 780 KB] An information sheet with answers to your most commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine and its safety and side effects. COVID-19 vaccine – your questions answered [PDF, 116 KB] COVID-19 vaccine – your safety and side effects questions answered [PDF, 138 KB] An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 142 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 634 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 86 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] A one-page poster outlining the COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan for New Zealand. This includes four groups, who the groups include and why, when and where these groups will get vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan – When will I get my vaccine? [PDF, 287 KB] A graph estimating the volumes and timing of our COVID-19 vaccine rollout. This illustration shows planned DHB vaccine dose delivery to 30 June 2021. COVID-19 vaccine – estimated volumes and timing of vaccine rollout [PDF, 435 KB] An information sheet specifically for border and MIQ workers. Information on the rollout, who household contacts are, the vaccine protection and effectiveness, how the vaccines work and its safety. Advice about the COVID-19 vaccine – for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 110 KB] An information sheet specifically for people living with border and MIQ workers. COVID-19 vaccine – for people who live with border and MIQ workers [PDF, 121 KB] A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- We've translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 774 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine rollout and how to get your vaccination. Our COVID-19 vaccination plan [PDF, 780 KB] An information sheet with answers to your most commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine and its safety and side effects. COVID-19 vaccine – your questions answered [PDF, 116 KB] COVID-19 vaccine – your safety and side effects questions answered [PDF, 138 KB] An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 142 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 634 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 86 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- A one-page poster outlining the COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan for New Zealand. This includes four groups, who the groups include and why, when and where these groups will get vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan – When will I get my vaccine? [PDF, 287 KB] A graph estimating the volumes and timing of our COVID-19 vaccine rollout. This illustration shows planned DHB vaccine dose delivery to 30 June 2021. COVID-19 vaccine – estimated volumes and timing of vaccine rollout [PDF, 435 KB] --- Section Separator --- An information sheet specifically for border and MIQ workers. Information on the rollout, who household contacts are, the vaccine protection and effectiveness, how the vaccines work and its safety. Advice about the COVID-19 vaccine – for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 110 KB] An information sheet specifically for people living with border and MIQ workers. COVID-19 vaccine – for people who live with border and MIQ workers [PDF, 121 KB] --- Section Separator --- A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] --- Section Separator --- Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know Vaccine rollout groups Fact sheets
Home COVID-19 vaccines Our COVID-19 vaccination plan Vaccine rollout groups --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 vaccine rollout groups. People at greater risk will get vaccinated first. Once it’s your turn, you can be vaccinated at any time — there’s no cut off. Group 1 includes people working at the border or in MIQ, and the people they live with (household contacts). This is because: border and MIQ workers are most at risk of contracting COVID-19 vaccinating this group first will also potentially reduce the risk of transmission in the community. It is mandatory for workers at MIQ facilities, ports and airports who are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19 to get vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations How to book your vaccinations — Group 1 You are in this group if you: are a high-risk frontline healthcare worker (public or private) work in a long-term residential environment live in long-term residential care and are 16 or over are an older Māori or Pacific person being cared for by whānau live with or care for an older Māori or Pacific person live in the Counties Manukau DHB area and are 65 or over, have an underlying health condition or disability, are pregnant, or are in a custodial setting. This is because: older Māori and Pacific people living with their whānau in the community are more at risk of getting very sick from COVID-19 frontline healthcare and disability workers are at greater risk of getting COVID-19, or spreading it to people most at risk people working in long-term residential environments or living in long-term residential care have a higher risk of catching or spreading COVID-19 and getting very sick or dying there are many border and MIQ facilities in the Counties Manukau DHB area and people who are aged 65 or over, have an underlying health condition or disability, are pregnant are more at risk of getting very sick from COVID-19 international evidence has shown that COVID-19 can spread quickly among people in custody. How to book your vaccinations — Group 2 Sign up for Group 2 updates (external link) You’re in this group if you: are aged 65 or over, or have a relevant underlying health condition, or are disabled, or are in a position of caring for a person with a disability, or are pregnant (any trimester), or are an adult in a custodial setting. This is because: we know that age and certain underlying health conditions and disabilities mean that it is much more likely that people will get very sick they catch COVID-19 international evidence has shown that COVID-19 can spread quickly among people in custody. How to book your vaccinations — Group 3 Sign up for Group 3 updates (external link) You're in this group if you're aged 16 and over and have not been eligible for a vaccination yet. The first age band is people aged 60 years and over — they will be able to book their vaccinations from 28 July. The next age band is people aged 55 and over — bookings for this age band will open 2 weeks later, on 11 August. Depending on vaccine supply and progress with other age groups, invitations will open up to people over 45 years from mid to late August, mid to late September for people 35 plus, with everyone else being eligible from October. Once it’s your turn, you can be vaccinated at any time — there’s no cut off. There are more than 2 million people in this group. We need to make sure everyone can have their turn, and we need to pace how we roll vaccinations out. Everyone in this group will have the opportunity to get vaccinated by the end of the year. Sign up for Group 4 updates (external link) The actual start times will depend on when vaccines are delivered. Changes may also happen if we get new information that affects how the rollout will work. Find out which group you're in Who can get a COVID-19 vaccination Apply for an early vaccination --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 vaccine rollout groups. People at greater risk will get vaccinated first. Once it’s your turn, you can be vaccinated at any time — there’s no cut off. --- Section Separator --- Group 1 includes people working at the border or in MIQ, and the people they live with (household contacts). This is because: border and MIQ workers are most at risk of contracting COVID-19 vaccinating this group first will also potentially reduce the risk of transmission in the community. It is mandatory for workers at MIQ facilities, ports and airports who are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19 to get vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations How to book your vaccinations — Group 1 --- Section Separator --- You are in this group if you: are a high-risk frontline healthcare worker (public or private) work in a long-term residential environment live in long-term residential care and are 16 or over are an older Māori or Pacific person being cared for by whānau live with or care for an older Māori or Pacific person live in the Counties Manukau DHB area and are 65 or over, have an underlying health condition or disability, are pregnant, or are in a custodial setting. This is because: older Māori and Pacific people living with their whānau in the community are more at risk of getting very sick from COVID-19 frontline healthcare and disability workers are at greater risk of getting COVID-19, or spreading it to people most at risk people working in long-term residential environments or living in long-term residential care have a higher risk of catching or spreading COVID-19 and getting very sick or dying there are many border and MIQ facilities in the Counties Manukau DHB area and people who are aged 65 or over, have an underlying health condition or disability, are pregnant are more at risk of getting very sick from COVID-19 international evidence has shown that COVID-19 can spread quickly among people in custody. How to book your vaccinations — Group 2 Sign up for Group 2 updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- You’re in this group if you: are aged 65 or over, or have a relevant underlying health condition, or are disabled, or are in a position of caring for a person with a disability, or are pregnant (any trimester), or are an adult in a custodial setting. This is because: we know that age and certain underlying health conditions and disabilities mean that it is much more likely that people will get very sick they catch COVID-19 international evidence has shown that COVID-19 can spread quickly among people in custody. How to book your vaccinations — Group 3 Sign up for Group 3 updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- You're in this group if you're aged 16 and over and have not been eligible for a vaccination yet. The first age band is people aged 60 years and over — they will be able to book their vaccinations from 28 July. The next age band is people aged 55 and over — bookings for this age band will open 2 weeks later, on 11 August. Depending on vaccine supply and progress with other age groups, invitations will open up to people over 45 years from mid to late August, mid to late September for people 35 plus, with everyone else being eligible from October. Once it’s your turn, you can be vaccinated at any time — there’s no cut off. There are more than 2 million people in this group. We need to make sure everyone can have their turn, and we need to pace how we roll vaccinations out. Everyone in this group will have the opportunity to get vaccinated by the end of the year. Sign up for Group 4 updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- The actual start times will depend on when vaccines are delivered. Changes may also happen if we get new information that affects how the rollout will work. --- Section Separator --- Find out which group you're in Who can get a COVID-19 vaccination Apply for an early vaccination --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know Vaccine rollout groups Fact sheets
COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand must meet international standards and local requirements for quality, safety and efficacy. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand must meet international standards and local requirements for quality, safety and efficacy. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine development and safety How vaccines are developed and approved --- Section Separator --- Creating the COVID-19 vaccines took a global effort, but the world united to take on the challenge. And we didn’t start from scratch — researchers were able to use their knowledge of other coronaviruses and vaccine development. The vaccines have been developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Vaccine clinical trials and testing — Ministry of Health (external link) Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It evaluates applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. Medsafe will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. The Pfizer vaccine has been provisionally approved (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it’s been formally approved after a thorough assessment, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) Medsafe has given provisional approval of the Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 years. Cabinet still needs to approve a ‘decision to use’ – their decision is expected by the end of June. Until then people aged 12 to 15 cannot receive the Pfizer vaccine. It will not be mandatory for young people to get vaccinated. Provisional approval for Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 (external link) Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it’s used. It will assess ongoing data and reporting, such as large clinical trials across the world and reporting by healthcare professionals and people who have received the vaccine. Vaccine safety monitoring process — Medsafe (external link) Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 vaccines — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Vaccine evaluation and approval process — Medsafe (external link) How the vaccine protects you — Ministry of Health (external link) Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Creating the COVID-19 vaccines took a global effort, but the world united to take on the challenge. And we didn’t start from scratch — researchers were able to use their knowledge of other coronaviruses and vaccine development. The vaccines have been developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Vaccine clinical trials and testing — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It evaluates applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. Medsafe will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. The Pfizer vaccine has been provisionally approved (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it’s been formally approved after a thorough assessment, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Medsafe has given provisional approval of the Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 years. Cabinet still needs to approve a ‘decision to use’ – their decision is expected by the end of June. Until then people aged 12 to 15 cannot receive the Pfizer vaccine. It will not be mandatory for young people to get vaccinated. Provisional approval for Pfizer vaccine for young people aged 12 to 15 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it’s used. It will assess ongoing data and reporting, such as large clinical trials across the world and reporting by healthcare professionals and people who have received the vaccine. Vaccine safety monitoring process — Medsafe (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 vaccines — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Vaccine evaluation and approval process — Medsafe (external link) How the vaccine protects you — Ministry of Health (external link) Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- How vaccines are developed and approved Side effects
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine development and safety Side effects --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects 1—2 days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects don’t last long, and won’t stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Uncommon and rare side effects — Ministry of Health (external link) You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. If you have concerns or feel unwell after your vaccination, speak with your family doctor or other health professional, or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re concerned about your safety, call 111. Tell them you’ve had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. If you’ve had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you’re okay. The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) is a database of information about adverse reactions (side effects) to medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. CARM monitors this information to identify any issues to help with the safe use and prescribing of medicines. Reporting your side effects will contribute to the data being collected globally, and help identify patterns in New Zealand and any potential safety issues. COVID-19 vaccine: Report an adverse reaction (external link) Reported side effects in New Zealand — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccine side effects and reactions — Ministry of Health (external link) Getting vaccinated for COVID-19 — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects 1—2 days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects don’t last long, and won’t stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Uncommon and rare side effects — Ministry of Health (external link) You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. If you have concerns or feel unwell after your vaccination, speak with your family doctor or other health professional, or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re concerned about your safety, call 111. Tell them you’ve had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. --- Section Separator --- If you’ve had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you’re okay. --- Section Separator --- The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) is a database of information about adverse reactions (side effects) to medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. CARM monitors this information to identify any issues to help with the safe use and prescribing of medicines. Reporting your side effects will contribute to the data being collected globally, and help identify patterns in New Zealand and any potential safety issues. COVID-19 vaccine: Report an adverse reaction (external link) Reported side effects in New Zealand — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccine side effects and reactions — Ministry of Health (external link) Getting vaccinated for COVID-19 — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- How vaccines are developed and approved Side effects
Information about COVID-19, including what it is, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out more about how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. Advice on getting medical advice, flu vaccinations, health services and getting medical care if your visa has expired. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. If there is an emergency — such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, or fire — the usual emergency guidelines need to be followed. How to recognise COVID-19 misinformation and scams. Download and print these resources to remind everyone to practise good hygiene and keep track of where they've been. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including what it is, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out more about how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. Advice on getting medical advice, flu vaccinations, health services and getting medical care if your visa has expired. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. If there is an emergency — such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, or fire — the usual emergency guidelines need to be followed. How to recognise COVID-19 misinformation and scams. Download and print these resources to remind everyone to practise good hygiene and keep track of where they've been.
Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads and the current variants of concern. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, how fast they appear and what to do if you have any symptoms. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads and the current variants of concern. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, how fast they appear and what to do if you have any symptoms. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19.
Home Health and wellbeing About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of taste or smell fatigue diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your GP, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms can take up to 14 days to show after infection. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your GP, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will tell you whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your GP before visiting. If you’re outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your GP. Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Call your GP or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you're waiting for test results you'll also need to self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. Scientific evidence suggests that COVID-19 spreads by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may spread droplets containing the virus. People may get infected if droplets remain in the air for an extended time. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places during loud conversations. People may also get infected by the virus if they touch surfaces or objects that an infected person has touched, or if droplets have settled there. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your GP or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your GP or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID on the Ministry of Health website. Long COVID (external link) --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of taste or smell fatigue diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your GP, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms can take up to 14 days to show after infection. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your GP, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will tell you whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your GP before visiting. If you’re outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your GP. Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Call your GP or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you're waiting for test results you'll also need to self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. Scientific evidence suggests that COVID-19 spreads by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may spread droplets containing the virus. People may get infected if droplets remain in the air for an extended time. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places during loud conversations. People may also get infected by the virus if they touch surfaces or objects that an infected person has touched, or if droplets have settled there. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your GP or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your GP or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID on the Ministry of Health website. Long COVID (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they're older or have an underlying medical condition. When you leave the house, you should maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices at all Alert Levels. You can work with your GP or specialist if you need help understanding your level of risk and how best to stay healthy. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher hypertension that isn’t well controlled diabetes that isn’t well controlled chronic kidney disease liver disease. Many conditions and treatments can weaken a person's immune system, including: having chemotherapy or radiotherapy bone marrow or organ transplantation some blood cancers immune deficiencies including HIV infection immunity weakening medications such as high-dose corticosteroids and disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, especially those who have underlying medical conditions, are more at risk of severe illness from COVID-19. International evidence has shown that aged care facilities are prone to the quick spread of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more at risk of illnesses due to their age and they're also more likely to have underlying medical conditions. More information on visiting an Aged Residential Care facility International research has shown COVID-19 has a larger impact on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19, especially when there is: a higher rate of chronic medical conditions crowded housing difficulty accessing health care. People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your GP or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking - Ministry of Health (external link) We recommend people who are pregnant take extra precautions, as evidence shows they may be at greater risk of poor outcomes. If you're pregnant and work in an area where there's a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can: discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working agree on leave from work and pay arrangements with your employer, if you cannot work safely at your workplace or from home. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Learn about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) Find more information on maternity care at the different Alert Levels on the Ministry of Health website. Information for people who are pregnant, and those who have recently given birth (external link) At Alert Level 1, there's freedom to move around, but it's best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Things you can do to stay safe: Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. If you're working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about a risk assessment in your workplace. It will look at what the risk is for you and how to reduce it. At Alert Level 2 we need to reduce our contact with others. There's still some freedom to move around, but you should follow public health measures. If you're an at-risk person, you’ll need to take extra precautions when doing this. Things you can do to stay safe: Only connect with small groups of close family, whānau, and friends — those in or close to your bubble. Try not to interact with too many people outside of your own social circle as it won’t be easy to do contact tracing if necessary. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Wear a face covering where it’s difficult to keep a 2m distance from people you don’t know, for example in shops. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. There is more detailed guidance available for people who are at higher risk of COVID-19 at Alert Level 2. This guidance includes advice on shopping, work, socialising, travel and recreation: Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 69 KB] At Alert Level 3 we need to restrict our contact with others. We recommend people at higher risk stay at home other than for essential personal movement. This can include things such as accessing essential services like healthcare. There's more detailed guidance for people who are at higher risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. This includes a list of health conditions and guidance on how you can live your life as normal as possible at Alert Level 3. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] You can get essential in-home care at Alert Level 3, but services will change to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It's recommended that you work with your GP if you need further help understanding your level of risk. --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they're older or have an underlying medical condition. When you leave the house, you should maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices at all Alert Levels. You can work with your GP or specialist if you need help understanding your level of risk and how best to stay healthy. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) --- Section Separator --- Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher hypertension that isn’t well controlled diabetes that isn’t well controlled chronic kidney disease liver disease. Many conditions and treatments can weaken a person's immune system, including: having chemotherapy or radiotherapy bone marrow or organ transplantation some blood cancers immune deficiencies including HIV infection immunity weakening medications such as high-dose corticosteroids and disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, especially those who have underlying medical conditions, are more at risk of severe illness from COVID-19. International evidence has shown that aged care facilities are prone to the quick spread of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more at risk of illnesses due to their age and they're also more likely to have underlying medical conditions. More information on visiting an Aged Residential Care facility International research has shown COVID-19 has a larger impact on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19, especially when there is: a higher rate of chronic medical conditions crowded housing difficulty accessing health care. People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your GP or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking - Ministry of Health (external link) We recommend people who are pregnant take extra precautions, as evidence shows they may be at greater risk of poor outcomes. If you're pregnant and work in an area where there's a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can: discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working agree on leave from work and pay arrangements with your employer, if you cannot work safely at your workplace or from home. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Learn about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) Find more information on maternity care at the different Alert Levels on the Ministry of Health website. Information for people who are pregnant, and those who have recently given birth (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there's freedom to move around, but it's best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Things you can do to stay safe: Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. If you're working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about a risk assessment in your workplace. It will look at what the risk is for you and how to reduce it. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 we need to reduce our contact with others. There's still some freedom to move around, but you should follow public health measures. If you're an at-risk person, you’ll need to take extra precautions when doing this. Things you can do to stay safe: Only connect with small groups of close family, whānau, and friends — those in or close to your bubble. Try not to interact with too many people outside of your own social circle as it won’t be easy to do contact tracing if necessary. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Wear a face covering where it’s difficult to keep a 2m distance from people you don’t know, for example in shops. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. There is more detailed guidance available for people who are at higher risk of COVID-19 at Alert Level 2. This guidance includes advice on shopping, work, socialising, travel and recreation: Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 69 KB] --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 we need to restrict our contact with others. We recommend people at higher risk stay at home other than for essential personal movement. This can include things such as accessing essential services like healthcare. There's more detailed guidance for people who are at higher risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. This includes a list of health conditions and guidance on how you can live your life as normal as possible at Alert Level 3. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] You can get essential in-home care at Alert Level 3, but services will change to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It's recommended that you work with your GP if you need further help understanding your level of risk. --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing About COVID-19 What is COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs and airways. Coronaviruses are from a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. The most recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). On 7 January 2020, Chinese authorities confirmed they had identified the new strain of coronavirus (first called 2019-nCoV, and later SARS-CoV-2). The virus had not previously been detected in humans or animals. COVID-19 was first reported in December 2019 in Wuhan, Hubei Province in central China. The disease has since spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. It’s still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. It likely came from an animal. The exact origin of the virus is still unknown, but the first outbreak was linked to a live animal market. Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. Scientific evidence suggests that COVID-19 spreads by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may spread droplets containing the virus. People may get infected if droplets remain in the air for an extended time. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places during loud conversations. People may also get infected by the virus if they touch surfaces or objects that an infected person has touched, or if droplets have settled there. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your GP or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy for dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic is a sustained approach to keep it out, find it, and stamp it out. We do this through: controlling entry at the border with managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) for 14 days disease surveillance, for example testing anyone with symptoms physical distancing and hygiene measures testing for and tracing all potential cases isolating cases and their contacts broader public health controls depending on the Alert Level we’re in. Find out more about New Zealand’s elimination strategy | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccination is the next step in protecting people from COVID-19. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over. COVID-19 vaccines It’s a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current variants of concern are: Alpha – first found in the United Kingdom Beta – first found in South Africa Gamma – first found in Brazil Delta – first found in India. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs and airways. Coronaviruses are from a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. The most recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). On 7 January 2020, Chinese authorities confirmed they had identified the new strain of coronavirus (first called 2019-nCoV, and later SARS-CoV-2). The virus had not previously been detected in humans or animals. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 was first reported in December 2019 in Wuhan, Hubei Province in central China. The disease has since spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. It’s still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. It likely came from an animal. The exact origin of the virus is still unknown, but the first outbreak was linked to a live animal market. --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. Scientific evidence suggests that COVID-19 spreads by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may spread droplets containing the virus. People may get infected if droplets remain in the air for an extended time. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places during loud conversations. People may also get infected by the virus if they touch surfaces or objects that an infected person has touched, or if droplets have settled there. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your GP or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy for dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic is a sustained approach to keep it out, find it, and stamp it out. We do this through: controlling entry at the border with managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) for 14 days disease surveillance, for example testing anyone with symptoms physical distancing and hygiene measures testing for and tracing all potential cases isolating cases and their contacts broader public health controls depending on the Alert Level we’re in. Find out more about New Zealand’s elimination strategy | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccination is the next step in protecting people from COVID-19. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over. COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- It’s a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current variants of concern are: Alpha – first found in the United Kingdom Beta – first found in South Africa Gamma – first found in Brazil Delta – first found in India. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19
Information on contact tracing, locations of interest, and how the NZ COVID Tracer app works. What to do if you visited locations of interest in New Zealand, Australia and the Cook Islands. Advice for people who are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, your business and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. Use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet to keep track of where you've been if you do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, locations of interest, and how the NZ COVID Tracer app works. What to do if you visited locations of interest in New Zealand, Australia and the Cook Islands. Advice for people who are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, your business and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. Use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet to keep track of where you've been if you do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app.
Home Health and wellbeing Contact tracing Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You're a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. Your level of exposure will depend on what actions you need to take. This will often be staying home and getting a test. The day you're exposed is day 0. A negative test means you do not have COVID-19. A positive test means you do have COVID-19. Public Health will contact you. Anyone who was at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19 is considered a contact. The Ministry of Health will have locations of interest and advice for people who have been at those locations. It's important that you follow the health advice and get a test as needed. Contact tracing locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) You will need to check: the location and address details the date and relevant times instruction on what to do. Call your GP or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 if you have been at a location of interest or have symptoms. If you have difficulty breathing, call an ambulance on 111. If you’re a contact of someone who has COVID-19, you’ll need to watch for symptoms for 14 days after you were last near that person. COVID-19 symptoms can include one or more of the following: new or worsening cough fever shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose loss of taste or smell fatigue diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. Secondary contacts are household members or someone that has had significant contact with someone who has been at a location of interest. If the person who was at a location of interest develops symptoms, then secondary contacts should stay home until the contact returns a negative test result. If you're a secondary contact, you should watch for symptoms. If you do get symptoms: stay home call Healthline get tested. You'll need to stay at home until you get a negative result and it has been 24 hours since you've had any symptoms. You can find more information and advice about close and casual contacts on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 – Ministry of Health (external link) There’s financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You're a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. Your level of exposure will depend on what actions you need to take. This will often be staying home and getting a test. The day you're exposed is day 0. A negative test means you do not have COVID-19. A positive test means you do have COVID-19. Public Health will contact you. --- Section Separator --- Anyone who was at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19 is considered a contact. The Ministry of Health will have locations of interest and advice for people who have been at those locations. It's important that you follow the health advice and get a test as needed. Contact tracing locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) You will need to check: the location and address details the date and relevant times instruction on what to do. Call your GP or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 if you have been at a location of interest or have symptoms. If you have difficulty breathing, call an ambulance on 111. --- Section Separator --- If you’re a contact of someone who has COVID-19, you’ll need to watch for symptoms for 14 days after you were last near that person. COVID-19 symptoms can include one or more of the following: new or worsening cough fever shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose loss of taste or smell fatigue diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. --- Section Separator --- Secondary contacts are household members or someone that has had significant contact with someone who has been at a location of interest. If the person who was at a location of interest develops symptoms, then secondary contacts should stay home until the contact returns a negative test result. If you're a secondary contact, you should watch for symptoms. If you do get symptoms: stay home call Healthline get tested. You'll need to stay at home until you get a negative result and it has been 24 hours since you've had any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- You can find more information and advice about close and casual contacts on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 – Ministry of Health (external link) There’s financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Locations of interest Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet
Home Health and wellbeing Contact tracing How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is contact tracing. More about contact tracing — Ministry of Health website (external link) Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. Depending on the circumstances, you're considered a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand — Ministry of Health website (external link) You can also find locations of interest for quarantine-free travel areas: Locations of interest outside New Zealand The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. They'll be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes. If they have, this gives us all the information needed to: start finding the source of a cluster or community transmission find anyone else who has had exposure to the virus. It helps if they have also taken notes for those times when the QR code wasn’t available. If they have not used the app, there's a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down considerably, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. If the person was using the app and scanning QR codes, we can be certain of where they were at exact times. An alert can be sent via the app, warning others of the risk. If they were not using the app, an alert will not be sent — to avoid sending false alerts and worrying people. If you have scanned in somewhere that someone with COVID-19 has been at the same time, you will see a yellow alert on the app dashboard. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, and it identifies you've been close to someone with COVID-19, you'll see an orange alert on the dashboard. Find out more about the different NZ COVID Tracer alerts you can get — Ministry of Health website (external link) If an alert does go out, anyone who has been using the app will get information telling them they may have had exposure to COVID-19. They then self-assess whether they or anyone they know has symptoms, and get in touch with Healthline if they do. People who do not have the app will not be able to receive the alerts. That means there may be a delay before they find out if there is a threat of the virus in their community. You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been Display QR code posters at your place of business Have a contact tracing register for people who do not use the app --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is contact tracing. More about contact tracing — Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. Depending on the circumstances, you're considered a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand — Ministry of Health website (external link) You can also find locations of interest for quarantine-free travel areas: Locations of interest outside New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. They'll be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes. If they have, this gives us all the information needed to: start finding the source of a cluster or community transmission find anyone else who has had exposure to the virus. It helps if they have also taken notes for those times when the QR code wasn’t available. If they have not used the app, there's a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down considerably, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. If the person was using the app and scanning QR codes, we can be certain of where they were at exact times. An alert can be sent via the app, warning others of the risk. If they were not using the app, an alert will not be sent — to avoid sending false alerts and worrying people. If you have scanned in somewhere that someone with COVID-19 has been at the same time, you will see a yellow alert on the app dashboard. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, and it identifies you've been close to someone with COVID-19, you'll see an orange alert on the dashboard. Find out more about the different NZ COVID Tracer alerts you can get — Ministry of Health website (external link) If an alert does go out, anyone who has been using the app will get information telling them they may have had exposure to COVID-19. They then self-assess whether they or anyone they know has symptoms, and get in touch with Healthline if they do. People who do not have the app will not be able to receive the alerts. That means there may be a delay before they find out if there is a threat of the virus in their community. --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been Display QR code posters at your place of business Have a contact tracing register for people who do not use the app --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Locations of interest Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet
What to do if you visited locations of interest in New Zealand, Australia and the Cook Islands. Active locations of interest New Zealand Northern Territory Queensland New South Wales Victoria Western Australia --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes a list of locations of interest. You are a contact if you have been at a location of interest at the specified time. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you've been anywhere in Australia since 21 June, you should: try to limit the number of people you're in contact with scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app to help keep track of where you go watch for symptoms for 14 days. If you develop symptoms or feel unwell, call Healthline for advice. If you're asked to take a COVID-19 test, please take one. COVID-19 tests are free for everyone, including Australians currently in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- There are no locations of interest in the Cook Islands. The Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health | health.gov.ck (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has guidance to support New Zealand businesses that have been identified as a location of interest after a visit by a confirmed or probable COVID-19 case. In most cases, a public health official will call and talk you through what this means for your business. However, there may be some occasions, for example outside business hours, when it may not be possible to contact you immediately. Guidance for businesses | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Health and wellbeing Contact tracing NZ COVID Tracer app The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you keep track of where you’ve been. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster when there's a case of COVID-19 in the community, and stop it from spreading. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to: scan QR codes to create a private digital diary of the places you visit — the more we scan the safer we’ll be use Bluetooth tracing to keep an anonymised record of the people you’ve been near — turn it on under the 'Dashboard' section register your contact details in the 'My data' section so contact tracers can get in touch if they need to How to register your information (external link) save your National Health Index (NHI) number in the 'My data' section to speed up the process if you need a test. Where to find your NHI number if you do not know it (external link) add more details after you've scanned a QR code in the text box, such as who you're with or what you were doing — it's a great way to keep track of friends or whānau who do not have the app add a manual entry if you cannot scan a QR code — you can view and edit your diary at any time. --- Section Separator --- Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you've been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. Bluetooth tracing does not replace scanning QR codes — you still need to keep track of where you’ve been. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people you’ve been near. Think of it like your phone is giving a digital high-five to other people's phones. You do not have to have the app open for it to work, but you do need to have Bluetooth on your phone turned on. It does not use mobile data or drain your phone battery. Bluetooth tracing is entirely anonymous. No personal or identifying information swaps between phones. Bluetooth tracing cannot track your movements. No one will ever see who you’ve been near, or when or where you were near them, even if you test positive for COVID-19. How privacy is protected in the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing keeps us safe Bluetooth tracing: It's an early warning Bluetooth tracing and scanning work together --- Section Separator --- Scanning QR codes with the NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own paper notebook. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of the 3 Ws. Where you went. When you went there. Who you met. Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet If you have questions or feedback about the app or any problems using it: call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz At all Alert Levels, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster if you're a: businesses or service workplace public transport operator. Get your QR code poster Alternative contact tracing systems for people who do not use the app
Home Health and wellbeing Contact tracing NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you’re ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you’d like a booklet and cannot print your own. If you’re an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. How to use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet: Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. --- Section Separator --- Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you’re ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you’d like a booklet and cannot print your own. If you’re an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. --- Section Separator --- How to use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet: Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Locations of interest Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet
If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call Healthline, your doctor or iwi health provider. They will tell you if you should get a COVID-19 test. Community-based testing for COVID-19 is available through district health boards and public health units across the country. What to expect if you test positive for COVID-19. This includes going into quarantine, what to expect when you're there, and when you can safely return home. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call Healthline, your doctor or iwi health provider. They will tell you if you should get a COVID-19 test. Community-based testing for COVID-19 is available through district health boards and public health units across the country. What to expect if you test positive for COVID-19. This includes going into quarantine, what to expect when you're there, and when you can safely return home.
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 testing Community Testing Centres --- Section Separator --- If you’re unsure if you should get a test, call your doctor, Nurse Practitioner, or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Search for a testing location near you (external link) Northland testing locations (external link) Auckland testing locations (external link) Waitematā testing locations (external link) Waikato testing locations (external link) Whakatāne, Bay of Plenty, Rotorua and Taupō testing locations (external link) Tairāwhiti (Gisborne) testing locations (external link) Hawke’s Bay testing locations (external link) Taranaki testing locations (external link) Whanganui testing locations (external link) MidCentral testing locations (Ōtaki, Levin, Palmerston North, Feilding and Dannevirke) (external link) Hutt Valley testing locations (external link) Wellington and Kāpiti Coast testing locations (external link) Nelson-Marlborough testing locations (external link) West Coast testing locations (external link) Canterbury testing locations (external link) South Canterbury testing locations (external link) Southern testing locations (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re unsure if you should get a test, call your doctor, Nurse Practitioner, or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- Search for a testing location near you (external link) --- Section Separator --- Northland testing locations (external link) Auckland testing locations (external link) Waitematā testing locations (external link) Waikato testing locations (external link) Whakatāne, Bay of Plenty, Rotorua and Taupō testing locations (external link) Tairāwhiti (Gisborne) testing locations (external link) Hawke’s Bay testing locations (external link) Taranaki testing locations (external link) Whanganui testing locations (external link) MidCentral testing locations (Ōtaki, Levin, Palmerston North, Feilding and Dannevirke) (external link) Hutt Valley testing locations (external link) Wellington and Kāpiti Coast testing locations (external link) Nelson-Marlborough testing locations (external link) West Coast testing locations (external link) Canterbury testing locations (external link) South Canterbury testing locations (external link) Southern testing locations (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get tested for COVID-19 Community Testing Centres If you test positive for COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 testing Get tested for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you have cold or flu symptoms, it’s important to stay home and get a COVID-19 test as soon as possible. You should continue to stay at home until you have received a negative test result. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. If you're told to get a test, COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This is regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it’s to enter another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you're asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not have to pay for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that you can get your test results. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it’s helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you're very unwell and advised by your GP or Healthline that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not have to pay for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it’s to enter another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. When you get a test, your health professional will tell you how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will tell you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive Staying at home if you’re sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you get a COVID-19 test, your health professional will tell you whether you need to self-isolate. If they tell you to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) If you need to get a test for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There’s more than one way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get a test, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they’re testing. Assessment and testing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) Even if you have had your vaccination, you should still get tested for COVID-19 if you develop symptoms or if you're subject to regular testing. The vaccine is highly effective if people have both doses. Studies have shown that 95% of people who received both doses of the vaccine were protected against getting seriously ill. If you do get COVID-19, you're far less likely to fall seriously ill or spread the virus to others. Research is still ongoing to determine whether a vaccinated person can still pass the virus to someone else. So we must assume there's still risk of transmission. The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border| health.govt.nz (external link) Some countries need travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you're travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you're travelling to New Zealand, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. Travellers from Antarctica and most Pacific islands do not need to get pre-departure tests.. Travellers from Australia are required to get PCR or RT-PCR tests. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand The Ministry of Health publishes data on: current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics source of COVID-19 cases testing for COVID-19. This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including at-risk communities or groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have cold or flu symptoms, it’s important to stay home and get a COVID-19 test as soon as possible. You should continue to stay at home until you have received a negative test result. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) --- Section Separator --- Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. If you're told to get a test, COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This is regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it’s to enter another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you're asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not have to pay for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that you can get your test results. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it’s helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you're very unwell and advised by your GP or Healthline that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not have to pay for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it’s to enter another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- When you get a test, your health professional will tell you how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will tell you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you’re sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you get a COVID-19 test, your health professional will tell you whether you need to self-isolate. If they tell you to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need to get a test for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There’s more than one way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get a test, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they’re testing. Assessment and testing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had your vaccination, you should still get tested for COVID-19 if you develop symptoms or if you're subject to regular testing. The vaccine is highly effective if people have both doses. Studies have shown that 95% of people who received both doses of the vaccine were protected against getting seriously ill. If you do get COVID-19, you're far less likely to fall seriously ill or spread the virus to others. Research is still ongoing to determine whether a vaccinated person can still pass the virus to someone else. So we must assume there's still risk of transmission. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border| health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some countries need travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you're travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- If you're travelling to New Zealand, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. Travellers from Antarctica and most Pacific islands do not need to get pre-departure tests.. Travellers from Australia are required to get PCR or RT-PCR tests. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes data on: current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics source of COVID-19 cases testing for COVID-19. This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including at-risk communities or groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get tested for COVID-19 Community Testing Centres If you test positive for COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 testing If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- They will tell you what to do next and if you need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result. A lways stay home if you're feeling unwell or have symptoms of COVID-19. If you test positive a health professional will call you to discuss: all the people you have had contact with recently moving you into a quarantine facility. In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus from spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise, they will need to self-isolate at home. In quarantine, you will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme You will usually be asked to move into a quarantine facility as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus from spreading to others, and make sure you’re well looked after. The staff at the quarantine facility are well-trained in cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Quarantine facility staff will closely watch your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will help you in making arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It’s up to you and your family/household to decide: if you want to isolate together in a quarantine facility, or if the person with COVID-19 goes into quarantine alone. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) On arrival, you will get a ‘welcome pack’ with information about what to expect during your stay. You will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments, so you don’t need to leave to get supplies. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. If you’re unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to the hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in quarantine, or any COVID-19 related medical costs. The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you're no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that didn’t need hospital care, this will be: at least 10 days after the onset of your symptoms, and after you have had no symptoms for at least 72 hours. If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. --- Section Separator --- They will tell you what to do next and if you need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result. A lways stay home if you're feeling unwell or have symptoms of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive a health professional will call you to discuss: all the people you have had contact with recently moving you into a quarantine facility. In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus from spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise, they will need to self-isolate at home. In quarantine, you will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- You will usually be asked to move into a quarantine facility as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus from spreading to others, and make sure you’re well looked after. The staff at the quarantine facility are well-trained in cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Quarantine facility staff will closely watch your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will help you in making arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It’s up to you and your family/household to decide: if you want to isolate together in a quarantine facility, or if the person with COVID-19 goes into quarantine alone. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- On arrival, you will get a ‘welcome pack’ with information about what to expect during your stay. You will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments, so you don’t need to leave to get supplies. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. If you’re unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to the hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in quarantine, or any COVID-19 related medical costs. --- Section Separator --- The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you're no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that didn’t need hospital care, this will be: at least 10 days after the onset of your symptoms, and after you have had no symptoms for at least 72 hours. If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. --- Section Separator --- If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. --- Section Separator --- Get tested for COVID-19 Community Testing Centres If you test positive for COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention --- Section Separator --- It’s okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police, even if you’re not sure. Keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check in with each other. If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines are available for people needing help: Family Services 211 Helpline ( 0800 211 211 ) — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) Find your local Women’s Refuge by calling 0800 743 843 (0800 REFUGE) to be linked up with an advocate in your area The Women’s Refuge website hosts a list of refuges near you (external link) Te Ohaakii a Hine National Network Ending Sexual Violence Together Find out where sexual violence support services are in your area (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Victim Support — call 0800 842 846 . 24-hour service for all victims of serious crime Visit the Victim Support website to find out how they can support victims (external link) Victim Information Line/Victim Centre — call 0800 650 654 or email victimscentre@justice.govt.nz Find out more about the Victim Information Line and Victim Centre (external link) Women’s Refuge — call 0800 733 843 (0800 REFUGE) for 24-hour service advocacy and accommodation for women and their children experiencing family violence Find out more about Women’s Refuge (external link) Shine domestic abuse services — free call 0508 744 633 (9am to 11pm) if you’re experiencing domestic abuse, or want to know how to help someone else Find out more about Shine’s helpline (external link) Family violence information line — call 0800 456 450 to find out about local services or how to help someone near you Find out more about family violence and getting help (external link) Elder Abuse Helpline — call 0800 32 668 65 (0800 EA NOT OK). 24-hour service answered by registered nurses who can connect to local elder abuse specialist providers Here are signs of elder abuse or neglect to look out for (external link) Shakti New Zealand — call 0800 742 584 for culturally competent support services for women, children and families of Asian, African and Middle Eastern origin who have experienced domestic violence Find out more about Shakti New Zealand (external link) Better Blokes — call 09 378 8812 or email manager@betterblokes.org.nz for free peer support for male survivors of sexual abuse Find out more about Better Blokes (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Rape Crisis Centres — call 0800 88 3300 for contact details of your local centre. Provides support for survivors of sexual abuse, their families, friends and whānau Find out more about Rape Crisis Centres (external link) Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand — call 0800 044 344 . Offers one-to-one, peer and support groups for male survivors of sexual abuse and their significant others Find out more about Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) ACC Sensitive Claims Unit — call 0800 735 566 for access to services related to sexual abuse or sexual assault Find out more about accessing services via the ACC Sensitive Claims Unit (external link) Hey Bro helpline — call 0800 HeyBro ( 0800 439 276 ). 24/7 help for men who feel they’re going to harm a loved one or whānau member Find out more about Hey Bro (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Korowai Tumanako — text or call 022 474 7044 for a kaupapa Māori service for those with concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Korowai Tumanako (external link) Stop — support for concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Stop (external link) Need to Talk? 1737 — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) Kidsline — call 0800 54 37 54 (0800 KIDSLINE) for young people up to 18 years of age (24-hour service) Find out more about Kidsline (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Oranga Tamariki — call 0508 325 459 (0508 FAMILY) or email contact@ot.govt.nz for concerns about children and young people Find out more about getting in touch with Oranga Tamariki (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) --- Section Separator --- It’s okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the police, even if you’re not sure. Keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check in with each other. --- Section Separator --- If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines are available for people needing help: Family Services 211 Helpline ( 0800 211 211 ) — for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) Find your local Women’s Refuge by calling 0800 743 843 (0800 REFUGE) to be linked up with an advocate in your area The Women’s Refuge website hosts a list of refuges near you (external link) Te Ohaakii a Hine National Network Ending Sexual Violence Together Find out where sexual violence support services are in your area (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Victim Support — call 0800 842 846 . 24-hour service for all victims of serious crime Visit the Victim Support website to find out how they can support victims (external link) Victim Information Line/Victim Centre — call 0800 650 654 or email victimscentre@justice.govt.nz Find out more about the Victim Information Line and Victim Centre (external link) Women’s Refuge — call 0800 733 843 (0800 REFUGE) for 24-hour service advocacy and accommodation for women and their children experiencing family violence Find out more about Women’s Refuge (external link) Shine domestic abuse services — free call 0508 744 633 (9am to 11pm) if you’re experiencing domestic abuse, or want to know how to help someone else Find out more about Shine’s helpline (external link) Family violence information line — call 0800 456 450 to find out about local services or how to help someone near you Find out more about family violence and getting help (external link) Elder Abuse Helpline — call 0800 32 668 65 (0800 EA NOT OK). 24-hour service answered by registered nurses who can connect to local elder abuse specialist providers Here are signs of elder abuse or neglect to look out for (external link) Shakti New Zealand — call 0800 742 584 for culturally competent support services for women, children and families of Asian, African and Middle Eastern origin who have experienced domestic violence Find out more about Shakti New Zealand (external link) Better Blokes — call 09 378 8812 or email manager@betterblokes.org.nz for free peer support for male survivors of sexual abuse Find out more about Better Blokes (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Rape Crisis Centres — call 0800 88 3300 for contact details of your local centre. Provides support for survivors of sexual abuse, their families, friends and whānau Find out more about Rape Crisis Centres (external link) Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand — call 0800 044 344 . Offers one-to-one, peer and support groups for male survivors of sexual abuse and their significant others Find out more about Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand (external link) Tu Wahine Trust — call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) ACC Sensitive Claims Unit — call 0800 735 566 for access to services related to sexual abuse or sexual assault Find out more about accessing services via the ACC Sensitive Claims Unit (external link) Hey Bro helpline — call 0800 HeyBro ( 0800 439 276 ). 24/7 help for men who feel they’re going to harm a loved one or whānau member Find out more about Hey Bro (external link) Safe to Talk — sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe to Talk (external link) Korowai Tumanako — text or call 022 474 7044 for a kaupapa Māori service for those with concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Korowai Tumanako (external link) Stop — support for concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Stop (external link) Need to Talk? 1737 — free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline — call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) Kidsline — call 0800 54 37 54 (0800 KIDSLINE) for young people up to 18 years of age (24-hour service) Find out more about Kidsline (external link) Skylight — call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Oranga Tamariki — call 0508 325 459 (0508 FAMILY) or email contact@ot.govt.nz for concerns about children and young people Find out more about getting in touch with Oranga Tamariki (external link) OUTline NZ — call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention In an emergency Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene
Home Health and wellbeing How to access healthcare --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it’s important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Do not delay seeking help for any health needs. For other health services such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists, call to confirm whether appointments will be available in person, by phone or online. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and after birth. Flu vaccinations continue to be an important part in keeping New Zealand well. For more information about New Zealand's flu campaign, and to see if you’re eligible for a free vaccination, visit the Fight Flu website. Fight Flu (external link) Cancer centres around the country are continuing to deliver essential cancer services at all Alert Levels. Cancer screening programmes are continuing to operate, with appropriate safeguards in place to keep participants and staff safe. It is recommended that people over 70, or with pre-existing medical conditions, confirm with their health professional if it’s safe to attend appointments. Cervical and breast screening will continue for most women. The decision to screen those with existing medical conditions will be made on a case-by-case basis. Bowel screening invitations and home testing kits will continue to be sent out. If you receive a kit in the mail, complete it and send it back as soon as possible. More information about bowel, breast and cervical screening (external link) Antenatal and newborn screening services will continue to be provided but with some changes to ensure the ongoing safety of women and babies. National Screening Unit (external link) It’s important that anyone with health concerns contacts Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 or their doctor immediately. District health boards (DHBs) will not share any information about the immigration status of individuals with Immigration New Zealand. Seek medical advice if you’re unwell. Your treatment will be in complete confidence and your information will not be passed on to other agencies. --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it’s important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Do not delay seeking help for any health needs. For other health services such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists, call to confirm whether appointments will be available in person, by phone or online. Call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and after birth. --- Section Separator --- Flu vaccinations continue to be an important part in keeping New Zealand well. For more information about New Zealand's flu campaign, and to see if you’re eligible for a free vaccination, visit the Fight Flu website. Fight Flu (external link) --- Section Separator --- Cancer centres around the country are continuing to deliver essential cancer services at all Alert Levels. Cancer screening programmes are continuing to operate, with appropriate safeguards in place to keep participants and staff safe. It is recommended that people over 70, or with pre-existing medical conditions, confirm with their health professional if it’s safe to attend appointments. Cervical and breast screening will continue for most women. The decision to screen those with existing medical conditions will be made on a case-by-case basis. Bowel screening invitations and home testing kits will continue to be sent out. If you receive a kit in the mail, complete it and send it back as soon as possible. More information about bowel, breast and cervical screening (external link) Antenatal and newborn screening services will continue to be provided but with some changes to ensure the ongoing safety of women and babies. National Screening Unit (external link) --- Section Separator --- It’s important that anyone with health concerns contacts Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 or their doctor immediately. District health boards (DHBs) will not share any information about the immigration status of individuals with Immigration New Zealand. Seek medical advice if you’re unwell. Your treatment will be in complete confidence and your information will not be passed on to other agencies. --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention In an emergency Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene
Home Health and wellbeing In an emergency --- Section Separator --- If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly, but maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance. If your life or property is threatened, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember “long or strong, get gone”. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly, but maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance. If your life or property is threatened, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. --- Section Separator --- If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you’re near the coast, remember “long or strong, get gone”. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention In an emergency Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene
Home Health and wellbeing Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine — here’s what you can do to make sure you have the right information. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about the COVID-19 vaccine and the rollout in Aotearoa from a number of trusted sources, including: Unite against COVID-19 — Information for all New Zealander’s on how to get a COVID-10 vaccination, out vaccination plan and information on vaccine safety and development. Unite against COVID-19 (external link) Ministry of Health — The Ministry of Health leads New Zealand’s health and disability system and has overall responsibility for the management and development of that system. Ministry of Health (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri Karawhiua campaign — Karawhiua is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. It's led by Te Puni Kōkiri (Ministry for Māori Development), co-delivered by Te Hiringa Hauora (Health Promotion Agency) and supported by the Ministry of Health and the Unite Against COVID-19 teams. Karawhiua (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples — As part of the New Zealand Government’s response and Unite Against COVID-19 campaign, MPP has launched a complementary campaign about receiving the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Ministry of Health list of DHBs and contact details — DHBs are responsible for ensuring the provision of health and disability services within their regions. You can also find trusted information on the website of your local DHB, including information on vaccinations in your local area. District Health Board websites — Ministry of Health (external link) You can also keep up to date with current information and frequently asked questions by following these organisations’ social media channels, or by speaking with your health provider. Unite Against COVID-19 has social media channels on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedIn. You can also sign up for emailed newsletters, including one focused on vaccine. Protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Helpful tips from CERT NZ: Ask yourself where the information is coming from, and what the author wants you to believe. Just because an article looks good or reads well does not mean the quality of the information in it is reliable. Many sources of misinformation are well produced. Before sharing a story it’s important to check if it’s credible. You can do this by checking where the original story appeared, who is promoting it, and what other people are saying. For instance, do a Google search of the information or the organisation it has come from, and read what trusted reliable sources (such as academics or the mainstream media) say about it. Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: the COVID-19 vaccine is free you will never be asked to pay for the vaccine or pay to secure your place in the queue we will never ask for your financial details, your bank card details, PIN or banking password. official information about the vaccine will come from a trusted provider of health content, such as the Ministry of Health, Unite Against COVID-19, or your District Health Board a health worker will never come to your home to give you the vaccine, unless arranged with you beforehand if you receive an email, phone call, text message, or instant message asking for financial details in regards to the vaccine it will be a scam. Report it to CERT NZ immediately. If someone requests your financial details, or you find false or misleading information on leaflets, websites or elsewhere, report it immediately to CERT NZ. Find out how to report a COVID-19 scam or misinformation — CERT NZ (external link) If you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here’s how to do it: How do I mark a Facebook post as false news? — Facebook (external link) Report inappropriate content — YouTube (external link) Report a tweet, list or direct message — Twitter (external link) Reduce the spread of false information — Instagram (external link) Staying safe on Whatsapp — Whatsapp (external link) Report a problem — TikTok (external link) CERT.govt.nz (external link) — CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for misinformation and online scams. Netsafe (external link) — Netsafe is New Zealand’s independent, non-profit online safety organisation . Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) --- Section Separator --- Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine — here’s what you can do to make sure you have the right information. --- Section Separator --- You can find the most accurate and reliable information about the COVID-19 vaccine and the rollout in Aotearoa from a number of trusted sources, including: Unite against COVID-19 — Information for all New Zealander’s on how to get a COVID-10 vaccination, out vaccination plan and information on vaccine safety and development. Unite against COVID-19 (external link) Ministry of Health — The Ministry of Health leads New Zealand’s health and disability system and has overall responsibility for the management and development of that system. Ministry of Health (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri Karawhiua campaign — Karawhiua is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. It's led by Te Puni Kōkiri (Ministry for Māori Development), co-delivered by Te Hiringa Hauora (Health Promotion Agency) and supported by the Ministry of Health and the Unite Against COVID-19 teams. Karawhiua (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples — As part of the New Zealand Government’s response and Unite Against COVID-19 campaign, MPP has launched a complementary campaign about receiving the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Ministry of Health list of DHBs and contact details — DHBs are responsible for ensuring the provision of health and disability services within their regions. You can also find trusted information on the website of your local DHB, including information on vaccinations in your local area. District Health Board websites — Ministry of Health (external link) You can also keep up to date with current information and frequently asked questions by following these organisations’ social media channels, or by speaking with your health provider. Unite Against COVID-19 has social media channels on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedIn. You can also sign up for emailed newsletters, including one focused on vaccine. --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Helpful tips from CERT NZ: Ask yourself where the information is coming from, and what the author wants you to believe. Just because an article looks good or reads well does not mean the quality of the information in it is reliable. Many sources of misinformation are well produced. Before sharing a story it’s important to check if it’s credible. You can do this by checking where the original story appeared, who is promoting it, and what other people are saying. For instance, do a Google search of the information or the organisation it has come from, and read what trusted reliable sources (such as academics or the mainstream media) say about it. --- Section Separator --- Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: the COVID-19 vaccine is free you will never be asked to pay for the vaccine or pay to secure your place in the queue we will never ask for your financial details, your bank card details, PIN or banking password. official information about the vaccine will come from a trusted provider of health content, such as the Ministry of Health, Unite Against COVID-19, or your District Health Board a health worker will never come to your home to give you the vaccine, unless arranged with you beforehand if you receive an email, phone call, text message, or instant message asking for financial details in regards to the vaccine it will be a scam. Report it to CERT NZ immediately. If someone requests your financial details, or you find false or misleading information on leaflets, websites or elsewhere, report it immediately to CERT NZ. Find out how to report a COVID-19 scam or misinformation — CERT NZ (external link) If you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here’s how to do it: How do I mark a Facebook post as false news? — Facebook (external link) Report inappropriate content — YouTube (external link) Report a tweet, list or direct message — Twitter (external link) Reduce the spread of false information — Instagram (external link) Staying safe on Whatsapp — Whatsapp (external link) Report a problem — TikTok (external link) --- Section Separator --- CERT.govt.nz (external link) — CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for misinformation and online scams. Netsafe (external link) — Netsafe is New Zealand’s independent, non-profit online safety organisation . Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention In an emergency Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 There is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. --- Section Separator --- If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. If in doubt, rule it out. Scan QR codes wherever you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. Using the app will help our health services reach people quickly to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. You legally must wear a face covering whenever you're on public transport, including flights. Keep your community safe, and cover for each other. --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. It will keep the virus off your hands, so you won’t spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- Keep a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. Keep our persistence and socially distance. Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Clean surfaces --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. Scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 spreads by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to around 3 days, and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. Scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 spreads by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to around 3 days, and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Cough or sneeze into your elbow --- Section Separator --- Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them from getting on your hands. A face covering also helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Wearing a face covering is an extra protective physical barrier to help keep you and others safe by stopping the spread of COVID-19. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. You can also cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put them in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. Scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 spreads by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. People may get infected if droplets remain in the air for an extended time. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places during loud conversations. People may also get infected by the virus if they touch surfaces or objects that an infected person has touched, or if droplets have settled there. --- Section Separator --- Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them from getting on your hands. --- Section Separator --- A face covering also helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Wearing a face covering is an extra protective physical barrier to help keep you and others safe by stopping the spread of COVID-19. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. --- Section Separator --- You can also cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put them in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. Scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 spreads by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. People may get infected if droplets remain in the air for an extended time. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places during loud conversations. People may also get infected by the virus if they touch surfaces or objects that an infected person has touched, or if droplets have settled there. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Keep track of where you’ve been --- Section Separator --- Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. The app keeps us one step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your app. Bluetooth tracing keeps track of who you’ve been near, while maintaining everyone’s privacy. Remember to keep scanning QR codes — both are important for contact tracing. Learn more about the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download or order the NZ COVID Tracer booklet We recommend you keep track of the 3 Ws. Where you went. When you went there. Who you met. To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has had exposure to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. How contact tracing works How contact tracing keeps us safe — cartoon [PDF, 2.1 MB] At all Alert Levels, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poser if you're a: business or service workplace public transport operator. Get your QR code poster Contact tracing at your workplace --- Section Separator --- Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. The app keeps us one step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your app. Bluetooth tracing keeps track of who you’ve been near, while maintaining everyone’s privacy. Remember to keep scanning QR codes — both are important for contact tracing. Learn more about the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download or order the NZ COVID Tracer booklet We recommend you keep track of the 3 Ws. Where you went. When you went there. Who you met. --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who has had exposure to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. How contact tracing works How contact tracing keeps us safe — cartoon [PDF, 2.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poser if you're a: business or service workplace public transport operator. Get your QR code poster Contact tracing at your workplace --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Maintain physical distancing --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as ‘social distancing’, is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health, you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. Even if you’re wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. It’s still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. We still need to be careful and socialise safely to keep COVID-19 under control. Keep a 2 metre distance in public. Take extra care if you interact with people you do not know as it will make contact tracing harder. This means making the space when you’re in places like playgrounds, parks, businesses, shops, or walking along the street. Keep 1 metre distance in ‘controlled environments’. This is where contact tracing and other public health measures are possible. This includes places like cafes, church groups, gatherings, restaurants, and gyms. You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you’re feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will affect particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who do not live together and aren’t family/whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Outside of your home, you legally must keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times, as much as possible. Workers legally must maintain a 1 metre physical distance in the workplace, as much as possible. --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as ‘social distancing’, is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health, you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. Even if you’re wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. It’s still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. We still need to be careful and socialise safely to keep COVID-19 under control. Keep a 2 metre distance in public. Take extra care if you interact with people you do not know as it will make contact tracing harder. This means making the space when you’re in places like playgrounds, parks, businesses, shops, or walking along the street. Keep 1 metre distance in ‘controlled environments’. This is where contact tracing and other public health measures are possible. This includes places like cafes, church groups, gatherings, restaurants, and gyms. You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you’re feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will affect particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who do not live together and aren’t family/whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. --- Section Separator --- Outside of your home, you legally must keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times, as much as possible. Workers legally must maintain a 1 metre physical distance in the workplace, as much as possible. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Stay home if you’re sick --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your GP or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you’re helping keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of taste or smell fatigue diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your GP, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms can take up to 14 days to show after infection. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. COVID-19 symptoms Staying at home if you’re sick is one way to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you get a COVID-19 test, your health professional will tell you whether you need to self-isolate. If they tell you to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) If somebody you live with develops cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms they should call their regular health professional. If they do not have a regular health professional they can call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re unwell, we recommend not sharing a bed with others. Speak with your family and whānau about sleeping arrangements. Avoid sleeping in a common area until you’re feeling better. Aim to stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can open. Try to keep the window open as much as possible to enable ventilation and airflow as this will help to keep clean air moving through your room. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms as much as possible. Keep shared spaces clean and well ventilated. While you’re unwell, do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household, use the phone or other means of contact. It's OK for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. We recommend also avoiding visiting others if you’re unwell. Stay home until you have fully recovered. Do not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups or eating utensils with other people in your home. After using these items, we recommend washing them thoroughly with soap and water or putting them in the dishwasher for cleaning. Use your own toothbrushes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. Do not share food and drinks. Someone in your home can prepare your food, but we recommend not preparing food for others. Wash your clothing and dishes separate from others in your home. Make sure you use separate towels from other people in your house. Both for drying yourself after bathing or showering and for drying your hands after washing them. Ask your family and whānau or the people you live with to use their own towels and keep them separate. We recommend doing your own laundry. You can wash dirty laundry that has been in contact with a sick person with other people’s items. Do not shake dirty laundry. This minimises the possibility of dispersing the virus. It may be easier for someone else to fold and put away clean laundry items such as towels and tea towels. They can also provide you with laundry items. If you do not have a washing machine, wait until you’re no longer unwell before taking your laundry to a laundrette. You legally must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag. This bag can then go into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, we recommend still putting all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag. Then put that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. If you’re staying at home because you’re waiting on a COVID-19 test result and you cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. Your employer can apply for it once for you in any 30-day period. However, they can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells you to get another test. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons, and cannot work from home. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your GP or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you’re helping keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of taste or smell fatigue diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your GP, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms can take up to 14 days to show after infection. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you’re sick is one way to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you get a COVID-19 test, your health professional will tell you whether you need to self-isolate. If they tell you to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If somebody you live with develops cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms they should call their regular health professional. If they do not have a regular health professional they can call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re unwell, we recommend not sharing a bed with others. Speak with your family and whānau about sleeping arrangements. Avoid sleeping in a common area until you’re feeling better. Aim to stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can open. Try to keep the window open as much as possible to enable ventilation and airflow as this will help to keep clean air moving through your room. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms as much as possible. Keep shared spaces clean and well ventilated. --- Section Separator --- While you’re unwell, do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household, use the phone or other means of contact. It's OK for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. We recommend also avoiding visiting others if you’re unwell. Stay home until you have fully recovered. --- Section Separator --- Do not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups or eating utensils with other people in your home. After using these items, we recommend washing them thoroughly with soap and water or putting them in the dishwasher for cleaning. Use your own toothbrushes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. Do not share food and drinks. Someone in your home can prepare your food, but we recommend not preparing food for others. Wash your clothing and dishes separate from others in your home. Make sure you use separate towels from other people in your house. Both for drying yourself after bathing or showering and for drying your hands after washing them. Ask your family and whānau or the people you live with to use their own towels and keep them separate. --- Section Separator --- We recommend doing your own laundry. You can wash dirty laundry that has been in contact with a sick person with other people’s items. Do not shake dirty laundry. This minimises the possibility of dispersing the virus. It may be easier for someone else to fold and put away clean laundry items such as towels and tea towels. They can also provide you with laundry items. If you do not have a washing machine, wait until you’re no longer unwell before taking your laundry to a laundrette. --- Section Separator --- You legally must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag. This bag can then go into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, we recommend still putting all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag. Then put that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. --- Section Separator --- If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. --- Section Separator --- If you’re staying at home because you’re waiting on a COVID-19 test result and you cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. Your employer can apply for it once for you in any 30-day period. However, they can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells you to get another test. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons, and cannot work from home. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wash your hands --- Section Separator --- Do not touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: Wet hands with running water. Apply enough soap to cover wet hands. Scrub all surfaces of the hands — including the back of hands, between fingers and under nails — for at least 20 seconds. Rinse hands with running water. Dry hands thoroughly. Use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol, and rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. Wash your hands regularly, especially: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space, including public transport, markets and places of worship after touching surfaces outside of the home after touching money before, during and after caring for a sick or vulnerable person before and after eating. Always wash your hands: after using the toilet before and after eating after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets after changing babies’ nappies or helping children use the toilet when your hands are visibly dirty. You can use any temperature of water to wash your hands, as long as you use soap. Cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses. Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. When done correctly. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you’re outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Do not touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. --- Section Separator --- Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: Wet hands with running water. Apply enough soap to cover wet hands. Scrub all surfaces of the hands — including the back of hands, between fingers and under nails — for at least 20 seconds. Rinse hands with running water. Dry hands thoroughly. --- Section Separator --- Use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol, and rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands regularly, especially: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space, including public transport, markets and places of worship after touching surfaces outside of the home after touching money before, during and after caring for a sick or vulnerable person before and after eating. Always wash your hands: after using the toilet before and after eating after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets after changing babies’ nappies or helping children use the toilet when your hands are visibly dirty. --- Section Separator --- You can use any temperature of water to wash your hands, as long as you use soap. Cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses. --- Section Separator --- Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. When done correctly. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you’re outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. --- Section Separator --- You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. --- Section Separator --- Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. A face covering helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings are only one part of keeping yourself and others safe. Our strategy to protect New Zealand against COVID-19 is based on our border protections, testing, contact tracing and other public health measures, like washing hands and physical distancing. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to help keep people safe. At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We encourage you to wear face coverings when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded indoor places, like in supermarkets. At Alert Levels 2 and above the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. So, wearing a face covering is more important. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 2, when not on public transport, we recommend you consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. At Alert Level 3, the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. You're strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to keep your distance from other people. Face coverings do not need to be worn: by children under 12 by students on school buses by passengers in taxis or ride-share services, but drivers are required to on ferry services carrying passengers between the North and South islands on pre-booked public transport services within an Alert Level 1 area — bus or train services that collect your contact details before they depart, and allocate you a seat on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilots in a cockpit or train drivers in a train cab. You also do not need to wear face coverings if: it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is Deaf or hard of hearing you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. If you think you need an exemption card, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . You can get a printable version, or a card that you can show on your phone. If these are not suitable, Healthline will talk through other options with you. If you prefer, you can download a card from the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ, or contact them on 04 801 9100 or at info@dpa.org.nz Download exemption card for face coverings (external link) When you wear a face covering, it's important you use it safely. How to wear a face covering safely Most people can use non-medical-grade face coverings. These face coverings prevent the wearer from spreading diseases to others. It could also help protect the wearer from becoming infected. Non-medical-grade face coverings can be either single-use or reusable. A single-use face covering can only be worn once, and we recommend you throw it away after wearing it. Fabric reusable face coverings can be washed and reused. Non-medical-grade face coverings do not need to conform to any standard. This means they are not used in medical settings. You can buy non-medical-grade face coverings online or in shops like pharmacies, supermarkets and hardware stores. If you do not have a face covering, you do not need to rush out and buy one. You can use another kind of covering, like a bandana, scarf or t-shirt. How to make a face covering At raised Alert Levels, we recommend people at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 avoid contact with the public. If you need to go out, and feel you are at risk, you may wish to discuss with your health provider whether using a medical mask is best for you. Medical masks are made to be used by healthcare workers. These masks provide a protective barrier between the healthcare worker and the people they are treating to reduce transmission of infectious diseases. They are used in combination with other measures such as hand hygiene and physical distancing when required. They are not reusable and must comply with the standard AS 4381:2015, or international equivalent. Surgical masks are worn by healthcare professionals during healthcare procedures. They generally have a higher level of quality testing and are designed to reduce fluid splash and transmission of infectious diseases. The Ministry of Health will make sure there is enough supply and distribution of medical and surgical masks for the wider health sector. Ensuring medical, surgical and N95 (or equivalent) masks are available for healthcare workers and those working in high-risk COVID-19 settings, such as border control, continues to be a priority. Find 2 ways of making a face covering: Make a face covering in under 10 seconds with no sewing. Sew your own face covering. How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. A face covering helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings are only one part of keeping yourself and others safe. Our strategy to protect New Zealand against COVID-19 is based on our border protections, testing, contact tracing and other public health measures, like washing hands and physical distancing. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to help keep people safe. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We encourage you to wear face coverings when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded indoor places, like in supermarkets. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Levels 2 and above the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. So, wearing a face covering is more important. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 2, when not on public transport, we recommend you consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. You're strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to keep your distance from other people. --- Section Separator --- Face coverings do not need to be worn: by children under 12 by students on school buses by passengers in taxis or ride-share services, but drivers are required to on ferry services carrying passengers between the North and South islands on pre-booked public transport services within an Alert Level 1 area — bus or train services that collect your contact details before they depart, and allocate you a seat on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilots in a cockpit or train drivers in a train cab. You also do not need to wear face coverings if: it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is Deaf or hard of hearing you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. If you think you need an exemption card, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . You can get a printable version, or a card that you can show on your phone. If these are not suitable, Healthline will talk through other options with you. If you prefer, you can download a card from the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ, or contact them on 04 801 9100 or at info@dpa.org.nz Download exemption card for face coverings (external link) --- Section Separator --- When you wear a face covering, it's important you use it safely. How to wear a face covering safely --- Section Separator --- Most people can use non-medical-grade face coverings. These face coverings prevent the wearer from spreading diseases to others. It could also help protect the wearer from becoming infected. Non-medical-grade face coverings can be either single-use or reusable. A single-use face covering can only be worn once, and we recommend you throw it away after wearing it. Fabric reusable face coverings can be washed and reused. Non-medical-grade face coverings do not need to conform to any standard. This means they are not used in medical settings. You can buy non-medical-grade face coverings online or in shops like pharmacies, supermarkets and hardware stores. If you do not have a face covering, you do not need to rush out and buy one. You can use another kind of covering, like a bandana, scarf or t-shirt. How to make a face covering At raised Alert Levels, we recommend people at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 avoid contact with the public. If you need to go out, and feel you are at risk, you may wish to discuss with your health provider whether using a medical mask is best for you. Medical masks are made to be used by healthcare workers. These masks provide a protective barrier between the healthcare worker and the people they are treating to reduce transmission of infectious diseases. They are used in combination with other measures such as hand hygiene and physical distancing when required. They are not reusable and must comply with the standard AS 4381:2015, or international equivalent. Surgical masks are worn by healthcare professionals during healthcare procedures. They generally have a higher level of quality testing and are designed to reduce fluid splash and transmission of infectious diseases. The Ministry of Health will make sure there is enough supply and distribution of medical and surgical masks for the wider health sector. Ensuring medical, surgical and N95 (or equivalent) masks are available for healthcare workers and those working in high-risk COVID-19 settings, such as border control, continues to be a priority. --- Section Separator --- Find 2 ways of making a face covering: Make a face covering in under 10 seconds with no sewing. Sew your own face covering. How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Te Whare Tapa Whā --- Section Separator --- Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there’s an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. We can look after our physical health by: washing our hands coughing or sneezing into our elbows staying at home if we’re sick physically distancing from people we don’t know cleaning surfaces that have been touched. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to access healthcare Everyone’s mental wellbeing is still important. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you look after yourself and your whānau. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing Taha wairua is about our relationship with the environment, people and heritage in the past, present and future. Your spiritual essence is your life force — your mauri. This is who and what you are, where you have come from and where you are going. Feeling comfortable in your identity, values and beliefs helps you to feel secure in who you are and what you stand for. When you are content with yourself you are better able to cope with challenges, build strong whānau relationships and discover the things that uplift you. Whānau is about extended relationships — not just your immediate relatives, it’s your friends, hoamahi/colleagues, your community and the people who you care about. Everyone has a place and a role to fulfil within their own whānau, and whānau contributes to your individual wellbeing and identity. Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch and keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there’s an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. Te Whare Tapa Whā tool (external link) This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- We can look after our physical health by: washing our hands coughing or sneezing into our elbows staying at home if we’re sick physically distancing from people we don’t know cleaning surfaces that have been touched. If you’re concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to access healthcare --- Section Separator --- Everyone’s mental wellbeing is still important. The Getting Through Together toolkit shares tips and information to help you look after yourself and your whānau. The toolkit includes tools for parents, called Sparklers at Home, which provides support for parents to talk with their primary-school-aged children about their own mental health and wellbeing. Getting Through Together (external link) Sparklers at Home parenting toolkit (external link) For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. How to look after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Taha wairua is about our relationship with the environment, people and heritage in the past, present and future. Your spiritual essence is your life force — your mauri. This is who and what you are, where you have come from and where you are going. Feeling comfortable in your identity, values and beliefs helps you to feel secure in who you are and what you stand for. When you are content with yourself you are better able to cope with challenges, build strong whānau relationships and discover the things that uplift you. --- Section Separator --- Whānau is about extended relationships — not just your immediate relatives, it’s your friends, hoamahi/colleagues, your community and the people who you care about. Everyone has a place and a role to fulfil within their own whānau, and whānau contributes to your individual wellbeing and identity. Strengthen your taha whānau by staying in touch and keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress Information on financial support --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Family and sexual violence prevention In an emergency Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene
--- Section Separator --- This page contains information specifically for disabled people. Advice for religious communities including providing last rites, funerals, and advice for Muslim communities. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Information and advice translated into different languages. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support. --- Section Separator --- This page contains information specifically for disabled people. Advice for religious communities including providing last rites, funerals, and advice for Muslim communities. Ways to support your community, including buy local to support local and getting out and seeing New Zealand. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Information and advice translated into different languages. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support.
All COVID-19 vaccination information is constantly under review. Alternate formats are in Easy Read, New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL), braille, audio and Large Print. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. --- Section Separator --- Advice in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Order information about COVID-19 in braille format. --- Section Separator --- Advice in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Order information about COVID-19 in braille format.
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Easy Read --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.1 MB] What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [DOCX, 9 MB] What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [PDF, 1.3 MB] Getting the right information matters [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information matters [PDF, 850 KB] An update about COVID-19 vaccines [DOCX, 6.3 MB] An update about COVID-19 vaccines [PDF, 1.4 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [DOCX, 7.6 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [PDF, 2.2 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.6 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.8 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 11 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.2 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 8.1 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card [DOCX, 4.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card [PDF, 1.2 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 3.1 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [DOCX, 8.4 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [PDF, 1.9 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 5.6 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.2 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [PDF, 1.4 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.4 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] What is quarantine-free travel? [DOCX, 1.9 MB] What is quarantine-free travel? [PDF, 896 KB] Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free [DOCX, 5.5 MB] Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free [PDF, 1.2 MB] Travelling quarantine-free to Australia from New Zealand [DOCX, 5.4 MB] Travelling quarantine-free to Australia from New Zealand [PDF, 1.2 MB] Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free [DOCX, 4.7 MB] Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free [PDF, 1 MB] Travelling quarantine-free from Niue to New Zealand [DOCX, 5.3 MB] Travelling quarantine-free from Niue to New Zealand [PDF, 1.1 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble — Alert Level 3 factsheet [DOCX, 2.5 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble — Alert Level 3 factsheet [PDF, 1.3 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] It is safe to go to school [DOCX, 2.6 MB] It is safe to go to school [PDF, 802 KB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 10 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 13 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 2 MB] Visiting family and friends [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Visiting family and friends [PDF, 1 MB] Leaving your home and going out [DOCX, 6.7 MB] Leaving your home and going out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [DOCX, 3 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [PDF, 685 KB] Going to your appointments [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Going to your appointments [PDF, 1.2 MB] Going to work [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Going to work [PDF, 923 KB] Going back to school or university [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Going back to school or university [PDF, 996 KB] Travelling in NZ [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Travelling in NZ [PDF, 1.1 MB] Staying in your bubble [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Staying in your bubble [PDF, 1.6 MB] Exercise [DOCX, 2.9 MB] Exercise [PDF, 1.3 MB] Golden rules for businesses [DOCX, 8.7 MB] Golden rules for businesses [PDF, 1.4 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [DOCX, 3.8 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [PDF, 1.1 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [DOCX, 3.9 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Using healthcare services [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Using healthcare services [PDF, 1.6 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [DOCX, 7.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.1 MB] What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [DOCX, 9 MB] What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [PDF, 1.3 MB] Getting the right information matters [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information matters [PDF, 850 KB] --- Section Separator --- An update about COVID-19 vaccines [DOCX, 6.3 MB] An update about COVID-19 vaccines [PDF, 1.4 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [DOCX, 7.6 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [PDF, 2.2 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.6 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.8 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 11 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.2 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 8.1 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card [DOCX, 4.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card [PDF, 1.2 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 3.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- How COVID-19 testing works [DOCX, 8.4 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [PDF, 1.9 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 5.6 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.2 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [PDF, 1.4 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] What is quarantine-free travel? [DOCX, 1.9 MB] What is quarantine-free travel? [PDF, 896 KB] Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free [DOCX, 5.5 MB] Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free [PDF, 1.2 MB] Travelling quarantine-free to Australia from New Zealand [DOCX, 5.4 MB] Travelling quarantine-free to Australia from New Zealand [PDF, 1.2 MB] Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free [DOCX, 4.7 MB] Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free [PDF, 1 MB] Travelling quarantine-free from Niue to New Zealand [DOCX, 5.3 MB] Travelling quarantine-free from Niue to New Zealand [PDF, 1.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after yourself when you are sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble — Alert Level 3 factsheet [DOCX, 2.5 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble — Alert Level 3 factsheet [PDF, 1.3 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] --- Section Separator --- It is safe to go to school [DOCX, 2.6 MB] It is safe to go to school [PDF, 802 KB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 10 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 13 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 2 MB] Visiting family and friends [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Visiting family and friends [PDF, 1 MB] Leaving your home and going out [DOCX, 6.7 MB] Leaving your home and going out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [DOCX, 3 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [PDF, 685 KB] Going to your appointments [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Going to your appointments [PDF, 1.2 MB] Going to work [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Going to work [PDF, 923 KB] Going back to school or university [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Going back to school or university [PDF, 996 KB] Travelling in NZ [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Travelling in NZ [PDF, 1.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Staying in your bubble [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Staying in your bubble [PDF, 1.6 MB] Exercise [DOCX, 2.9 MB] Exercise [PDF, 1.3 MB] Golden rules for businesses [DOCX, 8.7 MB] Golden rules for businesses [PDF, 1.4 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [DOCX, 3.8 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [PDF, 1.1 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [DOCX, 3.9 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Using healthcare services [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Using healthcare services [PDF, 1.6 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [DOCX, 7.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Large Print and audio --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including symptoms and getting the right information. COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.1 MB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] Information about the COVID-19 vaccine rollout, including which vaccine we're using, its safety and effectiveness, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [DOCX, 149 KB] COVID-19 vaccine fact sheet [DOCX, 160 KB] COVID-19 vaccine fact sheet [PDF, 134 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [DOCX, 163 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [PDF, 266 KB] Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 166 KB] Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 277 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [MP3, 406 KB] Information about living at Alert Level 1. Living at Alert Level 1 [DOCX, 92 KB] Living at Alert Level 1 [MP3, 1.6 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 75 KB] Living at Alert Level 2 [MP3, 3.5 MB] Information about getting tested, contact tracing, using the NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth, and personal protective equipment (PPE) Assessment and testing [DOCX, 66 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 68 KB] Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 95 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Assessment and testing [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 3 MB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 3.4 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] Information about available support, and looking after your mental wellbeing. Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [PDF, 238 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 71 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Listen to mental wellbeing advice [MP3, 2.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including symptoms and getting the right information. COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.1 MB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine rollout, including which vaccine we're using, its safety and effectiveness, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [DOCX, 149 KB] COVID-19 vaccine fact sheet [DOCX, 160 KB] COVID-19 vaccine fact sheet [PDF, 134 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [DOCX, 163 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [PDF, 266 KB] Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 166 KB] Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 277 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [MP3, 406 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information about living at Alert Level 1. Living at Alert Level 1 [DOCX, 92 KB] Living at Alert Level 1 [MP3, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 75 KB] Living at Alert Level 2 [MP3, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about getting tested, contact tracing, using the NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth, and personal protective equipment (PPE) Assessment and testing [DOCX, 66 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 68 KB] Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 95 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Assessment and testing [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 3 MB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 3.4 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about available support, and looking after your mental wellbeing. Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [PDF, 238 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 71 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Listen to mental wellbeing advice [MP3, 2.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Help us stop the spread — Please do your bit — NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Face coverings and masks (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Getting the right information (external link) COVID-19 vaccines rollout plan (external link) Group 1 – Protect our border and MIQ workers (external link) Group 2 – Protect our high-risk frontline workers and people living in high-risk places (external link) Group 3 – Protect the people who are at risk of getting very sick from COVID-19 (external link) Group 4 – Protect everyone (external link) Information about Group 4 vaccinations (external link) COVID-19 vaccines (external link) COVID-19 vaccine simplified guide (external link) Making sure New Zealand's COVID-19 vaccines are safe (external link) Impact of the vaccine on our borders (external link) Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Getting tested (external link) Self isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) How does quarantine-free travel work? (external link) Travelling to Australia quarantine-free (external link) Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free (external link) Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free (external link) Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It's OK to ask for help (external link) It's OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) Simple steps you can take (external link) Animal welfare (external link) Information for international visitors (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Help us stop the spread — Please do your bit — NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Face coverings and masks (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Getting the right information (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines rollout plan (external link) Group 1 – Protect our border and MIQ workers (external link) Group 2 – Protect our high-risk frontline workers and people living in high-risk places (external link) Group 3 – Protect the people who are at risk of getting very sick from COVID-19 (external link) Group 4 – Protect everyone (external link) Information about Group 4 vaccinations (external link) COVID-19 vaccines (external link) COVID-19 vaccine simplified guide (external link) Making sure New Zealand's COVID-19 vaccines are safe (external link) Impact of the vaccine on our borders (external link) --- Section Separator --- Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Getting tested (external link) Self isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- How does quarantine-free travel work? (external link) Travelling to Australia quarantine-free (external link) Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free (external link) Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free (external link) --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It's OK to ask for help (external link) It's OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) --- Section Separator --- Simple steps you can take (external link) Animal welfare (external link) Information for international visitors (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille
This section contains information specifically for disabled people. Information in alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille --- Section Separator --- You legally must wear a face coverings on public transport, including planes at all Alert Levels. However, we know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. You can get a printable version, or a card that you can show on your phone. If these are not suitable, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and they will talk through other options with you. Download exemption card for face coverings (external link) --- Section Separator --- We will have enough vaccines for all eligible New Zealanders to be vaccinated this year. We are vaccinating people at greatest risk first. Everyone will have the opportunity to be vaccinated. You may need to wait a little longer to receive your vaccine, but you won't miss out. If you're in Group 3, you will be receive an invitation to be vaccinated by the end of July. When it’s your turn to get the vaccine, your local district health board (DHB), your GP or other healthcare provider will get in touch. If you have moved recently make sure you’ve updated your details with your healthcare provider. If you’re in Group 3 and not registered with a GP or other healthcare provider, DHBs will be running campaigns to let you know how you can book in for a vaccine. --- Section Separator --- Group 1, 2 and 3 vaccinations are underway COVID-19 vaccine: How does the vaccine work? --- Section Separator --- Under the Health Code, you have the right to be told everything about your health and the care that you are receiving. You must give informed consent before any procedure takes place, including getting a vaccine. Before asking for your consent, your doctor or healthcare provider should clearly explain to you: what happens during the procedure what other options there might be what you can expect after the procedure any risks that may be associated with the procedure. You can also ask any questions that you may have about the procedure. For more information on informed consent, please refer to ’Right 7’ of the Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers’ Rights. Read the Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers’ Rights (external link) --- Section Separator --- Supported decision-making is considered best practice by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with a Disability (UNCRPD), of which New Zealand is a signatory, and is recognised as a right for everyone in New Zealand. Supported decision-making is a way for people to make their own decisions based on their will and preferences, so they have control of their life. It ensures the person who needs support is at the centre of all decisions that concern them. Supported decision-making is different from ‘substitute decision-making’. Substitute decision-making is when someone else makes decisions for a person, including making decisions in the person’s best interests. While substitute decision-making has often been used informally, by family or friends, or formally, such as an Enduring Power of Attorney or by service providers, there is now a move to supported decision-making. Supported decision-making on the Ministry of Social Development’s website (external link) Ministry of Health's COVID-19 vaccination program: Guidance and practical tools for supporting disabled people with decision-making and consent [PDF, 1.5 MB] (external link) --- Section Separator --- In New Zealand, when you use a health or disability service you have rights. The rights are called the Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers' Rights or "the Code". You have the right to: be treated with respect be treated fairly dignity and independence have good care and support that fits your needs be told things in a way that you understand be told everything you need to know about your care and support make choices about your care and support have support decide if you want to be part of training, teaching, or research make a complaint. More information on your rights | hdc.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find information about COVID-19 in alternate formats: New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille
Home Iwi and communities Information for Māori You might be interested in: Karawhiua vaccine campaign Information in te reo Māori Guidance for marae Physical distancing — including hongi and harirū Funerals and tangihanga Te Whare Tapa Whā --- Section Separator --- These guidelines were developed to clarify public health measures and support marae to make their own decisions for the safety and wellbeing of their whānau, hapū, and iwi . We acknowledge that many iwi have already put together COVID-19 response plans for their hapū and marae. Marae should contact their tribal authority in the first instance if they have further questions. Guidance for marae --- Section Separator --- Karawhiua is a campaign for whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Karawhiua is led by Te Puni Kōkiri, co-delivered by Te Hiringa Hauora (Health Promotion Agency) and supported by the Ministry of Health and the Unite Against COVID-19 teams. Visit the Karawhiua website to learn more about vaccines (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ruthie was seven months hapū, with her baby Hope, when she contracted COVID-19 last year at a tangihanga. She shares her experience of being the first hapū māmā with COVID-19 in Aotearoa and her thoughts on the vaccine. Ruthie’s story is part of the Te Puni Kōkiri-led Karawhiua campaign which encourages whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities to make an informed choice about getting vaccinated against COVID-19. Watch Ruthie’s full story at Karawhiua (external link) --- Section Separator --- Whānau can go to work and school if they aren’t māuiui. Kura, kōhanga, and puna reo are open for our tamariki. There are no restrictions on hui and gatherings. There are no restrictions on hongi and harirū. Face coverings must be worn on buses, trains, and flights. Learn more about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, whānau and friends can still connect, but restrictions are in place to manage the risk and spread of COVID-19. In practice, for those who do not live together and aren’t family/whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Maintain physical distancing, including harirū and hongi Gatherings and events Funerals and tangihanga --- Section Separator --- If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we'll be. Find out when you can get a COVID-19 vaccine and how to book your vaccination appointments.
Home Iwi and communities Information for Pacific Peoples Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Information in Pacific languages: Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu --- Section Separator --- When you get vaccinated, you’re not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. The vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect Aotearoa from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry for Pacific Peoples has created an educational video about the Pfizer vaccine that is also available in 9 Pacific languages. --- Section Separator --- The Government has a plan to roll-out vaccinations for everyone in New Zealand and has put people into one of four groups. Some Pacific Peoples are included in Group 2 who are currently being vaccinated. You are in this group if you: are a high-risk frontline healthcare and disability worker, as you are at greater risk of getting COVID-19, or spreading it to people most at risk work in a long-term residential environment or live in long-term residential care and are 16 or over, as people working in long-term residential environments or living in long-term residential care have a higher risk of catching or spreading COVID-19 and getting very sick or dying live with or care for an older Māori or Pacific person or are an older Māori or Pacific person being cared for by whānau, as you are more at risk of getting very sick from COVID-19 live in the Counties Manukau DHB area and are 65 or over, have an underlying health condition or disability, are pregnant, or are in a custodial setting. Find out if you are in the Counties Manukau DHB area (external link) (external link) Sign up for Group 2 updates (external link) (external link) Groups 1 and 3 are also being vaccinated now. Anyone not in Groups 1, 2, or 3 is in Group 4. Group 4 vaccinations will begin at the end of July. Our COVID-19 vaccination plan. (external link) --- Section Separator --- Make sure you get the latest news and updates from reliable sources. Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples Facebook page (external link) Pacific Media Network (external link) Tagata Pasifika (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu
Home Iwi and communities Religious communities --- Section Separator --- At different Alert Levels, gatherings may not be able to go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for religious events and ceremonies, and it will also impact a number of other religious practices. There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a religious event or ceremony at Alert Level 1. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at religious events and ceremonies to keep track of attendees. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses Religious buildings can open at Alert Level 2. Up to 100 people can gather in each defined space for religious ceremonies, events and services. A defined space is an area that is partitioned off from other areas by permanent or temporary walls. Faith-based institutions and clubs can operate with defined spaces, with up to 100 people in each area. You will need to prevent mingling between groups in common spaces, for example entrances, exits and toilets. Read more about defined spaces at Alert Level 2 Gatherings legally must: have no more than 100 people in each defined space excluding staff, for example clergy keep attendees who do not know each other 1 metre apart record attendees to ensure contact tracing can be done if necessary — but you do not need to do this if each person at the gathering knows everyone. If the place of worship is a workplace, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. We recommend that religious and faith-based gatherings follow social gathering rules, unless they’re operating under a club licence to sell alcohol. Then we recommend following hospitality rules. We recommend not participating in any gatherings if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. We recommend following the general guidance for gatherings, including measures such as frequent cleaning, good hygiene, wearing face coverings and physical distancing. More information about gatherings and events at Alert Level 2. At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they’re visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must adhere to the visiting policy of the health facility and follow the relevant infection prevention and control procedures. Halaal butchers may open, and you may enter the store. The shop legally must adhere to physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 2. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. A maximum of 100 people can attend the funeral. Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga can be held but are limited to a maximum of 10 people. Places of worship can use a variety of online methods to safely continue religious services. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Halaal butchers may open, but orders need to be taken online or by phone. You cannot enter the premises. We recommend either collecting your meat or getting it delivered to your home. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, a maximum of 10 people will be able to attend funerals. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- At different Alert Levels, gatherings may not be able to go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for religious events and ceremonies, and it will also impact a number of other religious practices. --- Section Separator --- There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a religious event or ceremony at Alert Level 1. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at religious events and ceremonies to keep track of attendees. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- Religious buildings can open at Alert Level 2. Up to 100 people can gather in each defined space for religious ceremonies, events and services. A defined space is an area that is partitioned off from other areas by permanent or temporary walls. Faith-based institutions and clubs can operate with defined spaces, with up to 100 people in each area. You will need to prevent mingling between groups in common spaces, for example entrances, exits and toilets. Read more about defined spaces at Alert Level 2 Gatherings legally must: have no more than 100 people in each defined space excluding staff, for example clergy keep attendees who do not know each other 1 metre apart record attendees to ensure contact tracing can be done if necessary — but you do not need to do this if each person at the gathering knows everyone. If the place of worship is a workplace, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. We recommend that religious and faith-based gatherings follow social gathering rules, unless they’re operating under a club licence to sell alcohol. Then we recommend following hospitality rules. We recommend not participating in any gatherings if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. We recommend following the general guidance for gatherings, including measures such as frequent cleaning, good hygiene, wearing face coverings and physical distancing. More information about gatherings and events at Alert Level 2. At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they’re visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must adhere to the visiting policy of the health facility and follow the relevant infection prevention and control procedures. --- Section Separator --- Halaal butchers may open, and you may enter the store. The shop legally must adhere to physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 2. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. A maximum of 100 people can attend the funeral. --- Section Separator --- Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga can be held but are limited to a maximum of 10 people. Places of worship can use a variety of online methods to safely continue religious services. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. --- Section Separator --- Halaal butchers may open, but orders need to be taken online or by phone. You cannot enter the premises. We recommend either collecting your meat or getting it delivered to your home. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, a maximum of 10 people will be able to attend funerals. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Religious communities Support your community Alternate formats Translations Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Honoa mai ki ngā whakaohiti mō ngā pārongo KŌWHEORI-19 kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori --- Section Separator --- Anei ngā whakahoutanga KOWHEORI-19 hou rawa: Ngā kōrero taketake mō te kano ārai mate Vaccine basics Ko wai e āhei ana ki tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? Who can get a COVID-19 vaccine Te werohanga kano ārai mate me tō mahi Vaccination and your job Te tono mō te werohanga wawe KOWHEORI-19 Applying for an early vaccination Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19: te whanaketanga, whakaaetanga me te haumarutanga COVID-19 vaccines: development, approval and safety Pēhea te mahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 How the COVID-19 vaccine works Ngā pānga kino o ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono me te kaupare i ngā tāwaretanga How to find trustworthy information and avoid scams --- Section Separator --- Ngā kōrero taketake mō te kano ārai mate Vaccine basics Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate How to get a vaccine Te haumaru me te whanaketanga Safety and development Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi kano ārai mate Vaccine posters and resources --- Section Separator --- Te Haere Taratahi-Kore Quarantine-Free Travel Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate The COVID-19 virus and symptoms He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika Getting the right information matters Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona If you test positive to COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau Testing Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere Turn on Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- Te noho i te pae 1 Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 Living at Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Te akuaku Hygiene posters Tohu whakamana ki o marae Posters for your marae Taku puka-iti mō NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Ngā tāngata i pātata, ngā tāngata noa i pātata, ngā tāngata i pātata [PDF, 106 KB] Close contacts, casual plus contacts, casual contacts Whāia ōu tapuwae [PDF, 125 KB] Track your journey Kia haumaru te haere [PDF, 119 KB] Travel safely
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms --- Section Separator --- He mate korona hou te KOWHEORI-19 ka pā pea ki ō pūkahukahu me ō arahau. He maha ngā momo mate korona e puta ai ngā māuiuitanga pēnei i te maremare noa iho nei. maremare e hou ana, e kino kē ake ana rānei kirikā kāore e iti iho ana i te tohurau e 38 ( 38°C ) huatare o te manawa mātihetihe me te ihu hūpē korenga o te ihu e rongo ana i te kakara. Ina pāngia koe e ēnei tohumate, ehara pea i te mea kua āta pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Tērā pea kua pāngia kētia koe e tētahi mate e hōrapa ake ana, pēnei i te maremare, i te rewharewha rānei. Ko te huatare o te manawa tētahi tohu pea o te pūkahu kakā, ā, me mātua tirotiro e te tākuta. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Tērā pea kua pāngia ētahi tāngata e ngā tohumate kāore e pērā rawa ana te hōrapa, pēnei i ēnei noa iho nei, i te: kirikā tikotiko māhunga ānini uaua mamae whakapai ruaki me te ruaki rangirua me te hōhā. Kāore anō mātou kia mōhio ki te roa o te wā ka hipa i mua i te kitenga o ngā tohumate mai i te pānga o te tangata. E ai ki te Kāhui Hauora o te Ao, kei te 2 – 10 rā tōna roa. Ka rere te KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kōpata i tētahi tangata ki tētahi atu. Ka pāngia e te tangata mā ō rātou karu, mā ō rātou ihu, mā ō rātou waha hoki. Ka maremare ana rānei, ka matihe ana rānei, ka kōrero ana rānei tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, ka rere atu pea i a ia ngā kōpata kei roto rā te huaketo. He rahi rawa ēnei kōpata kia roa tonu te rere i te takiwā, nō reira ka tau ki runga i ngā mata huri noa. --- Section Separator --- He mate korona hou te KOWHEORI-19 ka pā pea ki ō pūkahukahu me ō arahau. He maha ngā momo mate korona e puta ai ngā māuiuitanga pēnei i te maremare noa iho nei. maremare e hou ana, e kino kē ake ana rānei kirikā kāore e iti iho ana i te tohurau e 38 ( 38°C ) huatare o te manawa mātihetihe me te ihu hūpē korenga o te ihu e rongo ana i te kakara. Ina pāngia koe e ēnei tohumate, ehara pea i te mea kua āta pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Tērā pea kua pāngia kētia koe e tētahi mate e hōrapa ake ana, pēnei i te maremare, i te rewharewha rānei. Ko te huatare o te manawa tētahi tohu pea o te pūkahu kakā, ā, me mātua tirotiro e te tākuta. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Tērā pea kua pāngia ētahi tāngata e ngā tohumate kāore e pērā rawa ana te hōrapa, pēnei i ēnei noa iho nei, i te: kirikā tikotiko māhunga ānini uaua mamae whakapai ruaki me te ruaki rangirua me te hōhā. Kāore anō mātou kia mōhio ki te roa o te wā ka hipa i mua i te kitenga o ngā tohumate mai i te pānga o te tangata. E ai ki te Kāhui Hauora o te Ao, kei te 2 – 10 rā tōna roa. Ka rere te KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kōpata i tētahi tangata ki tētahi atu. Ka pāngia e te tangata mā ō rātou karu, mā ō rātou ihu, mā ō rātou waha hoki. Ka maremare ana rānei, ka matihe ana rānei, ka kōrero ana rānei tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, ka rere atu pea i a ia ngā kōpata kei roto rā te huaketo. He rahi rawa ēnei kōpata kia roa tonu te rere i te takiwā, nō reira ka tau ki runga i ngā mata huri noa. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks --- Section Separator --- Ko tā te mau uwhi mata he āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, mā te pērā hoki koe me ētahi atu e haumaru ai. Ka āwhina te uwhi mata i te aukatinga o te rere o ngā kōpata ka kōrero ana, ka kata ana, ka maremare ana, ka matihe ana rānei tētahi. Ka whai wāhi atu hoki ki tēnei te tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, engari e pēnei ana ia kei te pai tōna ora, kāore rānei ngā tohumate e āta kitea ana. Ehara i te mea me mau te nuinga o ngā tāngata i ngā ārai ā-hauora, ka mutu e pai ana kia mau rātou i ētahi atu momo uwhi mata. Ka kōrerotia te tangata me mātua whai i te uwhi mata, i te ārai ā-hauora rānei, e tōna kaituku mahi. Mehemea kāore ō uwhi mata, māu rānei tētahi e hanga, e hoko rānei. Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Ko tā te mau uwhi mata he āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, mā te pērā hoki koe me ētahi atu e haumaru ai. Ka āwhina te uwhi mata i te aukatinga o te rere o ngā kōpata ka kōrero ana, ka kata ana, ka maremare ana, ka matihe ana rānei tētahi. Ka whai wāhi atu hoki ki tēnei te tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, engari e pēnei ana ia kei te pai tōna ora, kāore rānei ngā tohumate e āta kitea ana. Ehara i te mea me mau te nuinga o ngā tāngata i ngā ārai ā-hauora, ka mutu e pai ana kia mau rātou i ētahi atu momo uwhi mata. Ka kōrerotia te tangata me mātua whai i te uwhi mata, i te ārai ā-hauora rānei, e tōna kaituku mahi. Mehemea kāore ō uwhi mata, māu rānei tētahi e hanga, e hoko rānei. Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters --- Section Separator --- He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: ahu mai i tētahi e huna nei tōna ingoa ake kī mai he pārongo kei a ia nō roto i ngā pokapū kāwanatanga, engari kāore e tautuhia te puna kī mai e whāngai pārongo ana ia kua hunaia i te marea, kāore rānei ngā āpiha e pīrangi nei kia mōhiotia e koe kī mai i te nuinga o te wā, ko te ‘kōrero houtupu’ e kino ake ana i te pārongo e whaimana ana. I tētahi wā pēnei: kia mataara koe ki ngā pārongo ka arohia e koe tirohia te kounga o te pārongo i mua i tō tuku ki ētahi atu. Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) --- Section Separator --- He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: ahu mai i tētahi e huna nei tōna ingoa ake kī mai he pārongo kei a ia nō roto i ngā pokapū kāwanatanga, engari kāore e tautuhia te puna kī mai e whāngai pārongo ana ia kua hunaia i te marea, kāore rānei ngā āpiha e pīrangi nei kia mōhiotia e koe kī mai i te nuinga o te wā, ko te ‘kōrero houtupu’ e kino ake ana i te pārongo e whaimana ana. I tētahi wā pēnei: kia mataara koe ki ngā pārongo ka arohia e koe tirohia te kounga o te pārongo i mua i tō tuku ki ētahi atu. Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te akuaku | Hygiene posters --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kia haumaru tonu ō tātou whānau | Keep our whānau safe [PDF, 99 KB] Me mihi i tawhiti | Greet from a distance [PDF, 82 KB] --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kia haumaru tonu ō tātou whānau | Keep our whānau safe [PDF, 99 KB] Me mihi i tawhiti | Greet from a distance [PDF, 82 KB] --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- He nui pea ngā māharahara me ngā pātai ka toko ake mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate korona. Ka waea atu te kaimahi hauora ki te kōrerorero i ngā take mōu, tae atu ki tōu whānau. Kei konei rātou ki te tautoko me te awhi anō. Ka kōrerohia e rātou ko wai mā te hunga i pāpāngia e koe i ngā rā tata kua mahue ake nei. Ka kōrerohia te whakaneke i a koe – me tōu whānau, mēnā ko te hiahia – ki tētahi puni whakamohoao (external link) e noho āhuru ai koe, hei tāmi hoki i te autaia mate. Ka noho koutou ki te puni kotahi, engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, ākene ka rerekē tō rūma ki ērā o te whānau e noho ora ana. Mēnā kē ko te hiahia a te whānau he noho ki te kāinga ki te noho rāhui, he pai tonu tēnā. Ko te matū ko te noho āhuru a te katoa. He koreutu ngā ratonga whakamohoao, tae atu ki ngā ō kai, ki ngā ō timotimo, te Waiwhai, te horoi kākahu me ngā paramanawa. Ki te māuiui koe, mā te kapa hauora koe e manaaki. Me rapu, me whakapā e ngā kaimahi hauora nga tāngata katoa i pāpāngia e koe, nā reira, ka waea ana rātou ki a koe, kua uia koe ki ōu takahanga katoa i ngā rangi tata nei. Ka whakamahia ēnei pārongo ki te tautohu i te tangata, i te wāhi rānei i pāngia ai koe e te mate korona, me te whakapāpā haere ki ngā tāngata kua pāngia e koe. Ki te tere kitea ōu hoapā, ko te painga atu tērā ki te pēhi i te autaia mate korona. Nuku atu i te tahi haora te roa o te uiui, engari ka taea tētahi wāhanga i runga waea hei whakapoto i te wā ki te māuiui koe. Ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi kaiwhakamārama reo hei whakamāori i ō kōrero. Ka meatia koe kia kamakama te neke ki te puni whakamohoao, e āhuru ai tō noho. Ka āhei hoki te whānau ki te noho tahi ki te puni whakamohoao. Heoi ngā mea māuiui, me noho ki rūmā kē hei wawao i te whānau kāore i te māuiui. Mā tōu whānau anō te whakatau ki te whakamohoao ki te kāinga rānei. Ka kōrero tō kaimahi hauora ki a koe me te tautoko atu i ngā whakaritenga katoa e tae pai ai koe ki te puni. Mēnā he kararehe āu, ka whai wā tonu koe ki te whiriwhiri i ngā manaakitanga mōna. Ki te hia haere koe ki te hōhipera, mā ngā kaimahi o reira e āta mahi kia mahi taratahi e tatū ai ngā manaakitanga hauora mōu. Kāore koe e mate ki te utu i ngā utu hauora e pā ana ki te mate korona. Ka āta mātakihia e ngā kaimahi tō hauora me tō toiora i a koe i te puni whakamohoao. He tino whai ture ngā tikanga akuaku me te noho haumaru. Ka whakamōhio atu te kapa hauora i a koe inā ka mōhio pū rātou kua maunu te mate i a koe. Mēnā e āhua māuiui ana koe, engari kāore he take o te haere ki te hōhipera, 10 rangi te roa me noho whakamohoao koe mai i te wā i tīmata ai te mate. Me wātea koe i ngā māuiui katoa mō te 72 haora i mua i te tukutanga ōu ki te kāinga. Ko ēra e tino māuiui ana, ā, kei rō hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i te tukutanga atu ki te kāinga. Kei ia kēhi āna āhuatanga ake. --- Section Separator --- He nui pea ngā māharahara me ngā pātai ka toko ake mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate korona. Ka waea atu te kaimahi hauora ki te kōrerorero i ngā take mōu, tae atu ki tōu whānau. Kei konei rātou ki te tautoko me te awhi anō. Ka kōrerohia e rātou ko wai mā te hunga i pāpāngia e koe i ngā rā tata kua mahue ake nei. Ka kōrerohia te whakaneke i a koe – me tōu whānau, mēnā ko te hiahia – ki tētahi puni whakamohoao (external link) e noho āhuru ai koe, hei tāmi hoki i te autaia mate. Ka noho koutou ki te puni kotahi, engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, ākene ka rerekē tō rūma ki ērā o te whānau e noho ora ana. Mēnā kē ko te hiahia a te whānau he noho ki te kāinga ki te noho rāhui, he pai tonu tēnā. Ko te matū ko te noho āhuru a te katoa. He koreutu ngā ratonga whakamohoao, tae atu ki ngā ō kai, ki ngā ō timotimo, te Waiwhai, te horoi kākahu me ngā paramanawa. Ki te māuiui koe, mā te kapa hauora koe e manaaki. Me rapu, me whakapā e ngā kaimahi hauora nga tāngata katoa i pāpāngia e koe, nā reira, ka waea ana rātou ki a koe, kua uia koe ki ōu takahanga katoa i ngā rangi tata nei. Ka whakamahia ēnei pārongo ki te tautohu i te tangata, i te wāhi rānei i pāngia ai koe e te mate korona, me te whakapāpā haere ki ngā tāngata kua pāngia e koe. Ki te tere kitea ōu hoapā, ko te painga atu tērā ki te pēhi i te autaia mate korona. Nuku atu i te tahi haora te roa o te uiui, engari ka taea tētahi wāhanga i runga waea hei whakapoto i te wā ki te māuiui koe. Ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi kaiwhakamārama reo hei whakamāori i ō kōrero. Ka meatia koe kia kamakama te neke ki te puni whakamohoao, e āhuru ai tō noho. Ka āhei hoki te whānau ki te noho tahi ki te puni whakamohoao. Heoi ngā mea māuiui, me noho ki rūmā kē hei wawao i te whānau kāore i te māuiui. Mā tōu whānau anō te whakatau ki te whakamohoao ki te kāinga rānei. Ka kōrero tō kaimahi hauora ki a koe me te tautoko atu i ngā whakaritenga katoa e tae pai ai koe ki te puni. Mēnā he kararehe āu, ka whai wā tonu koe ki te whiriwhiri i ngā manaakitanga mōna. Ki te hia haere koe ki te hōhipera, mā ngā kaimahi o reira e āta mahi kia mahi taratahi e tatū ai ngā manaakitanga hauora mōu. Kāore koe e mate ki te utu i ngā utu hauora e pā ana ki te mate korona. Ka āta mātakihia e ngā kaimahi tō hauora me tō toiora i a koe i te puni whakamohoao. He tino whai ture ngā tikanga akuaku me te noho haumaru. Ka whakamōhio atu te kapa hauora i a koe inā ka mōhio pū rātou kua maunu te mate i a koe. Mēnā e āhua māuiui ana koe, engari kāore he take o te haere ki te hōhipera, 10 rangi te roa me noho whakamohoao koe mai i te wā i tīmata ai te mate. Me wātea koe i ngā māuiui katoa mō te 72 haora i mua i te tukutanga ōu ki te kāinga. Ko ēra e tino māuiui ana, ā, kei rō hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i te tukutanga atu ki te kāinga. Kei ia kēhi āna āhuatanga ake. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Kei waho tonu rā a KOWHEORI-19. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa me mātua whai: Kia rite tonu te horoi i ngā ringa ki te hopi ka whakamaroke ai, kia whakamahia rānei te patuero ā-ringa. Kia mare, kia matihe rānei ki tō tuke. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei, kia noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, kaua e haere ki te kura, kaua hoki e haere ki te mahi. Kia mau he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe me te hunga e torona rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. He tohutohu mō te haere kia whakamātauria He tohutohu mō te huaketo me ōna tohumate I runga ki nga waka tūmatanui, ai ka ū nga arai mata Mā te ū tonu ki ngā tikanga pai o te uwhi mata e āwhina kia haumaru tonu koe me ētahi atu, ka mutu mā te pērā hoki e kaha kē atu ai te haumarutia ōu i ngā wā e iti ana rānei, e kore ana rānei te tū tīrara a ngā tāngata, hei tauira, i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā hokomaha hoki. He tohutohu mō te uwhi mata Kāore he herenga i runga i ngā huihuinga. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ēnei ngā tangihanga, ngā mārena, ngā huihuinga ā-hāhi me ngā huihuinga ā-hapori, ngā tākaro me ngā mahi a te rēhia. I te Pae Mataara 1, kua herea a KOWHEORI-19 engari ka whai hua tonu te ū kia tū tīrara i te hunga kāore e mōhiotia ana e koe ka puta ana koe ki hea rānei. Mā te pērā e tautāwhi te rerenga o KOWHEORI-19 mehemea ka rere anō te mate i waenga i te hapori. E āhei ana te rere noa o ngā whakahaere a ngā pakihi me ngā wāhi mahi. Me mātua whakaatu tonu rātou i te tohu QR o te NZ COVID Tracer , ā, me mātua whai hoki i pūnaha kē hei whakatewhatewha pāngaā ki ia papa. Me whakaatu tonu ngā waka tūmatanui i ngā tohu QR mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. E āhei ana kia tuwhera noa ngā kura, ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga me ngā kura tuatoru. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. He wā ōna ka āta whakaputaina he pūrongo hei whāngai rānei i te tangata ki te kōrero teka, hei tāware rānei i a rātou. E taupatupatu ana tērā ki a tātou i tēnei wā me mātua mahi ngātahi tātou hei turaki i te huaketo. He tohutohu e mau ai ngā pūrongo e tika ana Kāore anō a KOWHEORI-19 kia herea i tāwāhi. Kei te mau tonu ngā whakaritenga i ō tātou tawhā hei tautāwhi i te tūpono ka rere mai a KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi. Me mātua haere te hunga e tau mai ana ki Aotearoa ki ngā wāhi whakataratahi, atu i ngā wā kua kore e mate ki te pērā (ahakoa pēhea, me noho taratahi tonu). Ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā wāhi whakataratahi, kei ngā wāhi taratahi, kei ngā tūranga mahi hoki e nui ake nei te tūpono ka pāngia e te mate, he rite tonu te whakamātauria mō KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- Kei waho tonu rā a KOWHEORI-19. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa me mātua whai: Kia rite tonu te horoi i ngā ringa ki te hopi ka whakamaroke ai, kia whakamahia rānei te patuero ā-ringa. Kia mare, kia matihe rānei ki tō tuke. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei, kia noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, kaua e haere ki te kura, kaua hoki e haere ki te mahi. Kia mau he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe me te hunga e torona rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. He tohutohu mō te haere kia whakamātauria He tohutohu mō te huaketo me ōna tohumate I runga ki nga waka tūmatanui, ai ka ū nga arai mata Mā te ū tonu ki ngā tikanga pai o te uwhi mata e āwhina kia haumaru tonu koe me ētahi atu, ka mutu mā te pērā hoki e kaha kē atu ai te haumarutia ōu i ngā wā e iti ana rānei, e kore ana rānei te tū tīrara a ngā tāngata, hei tauira, i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā hokomaha hoki. He tohutohu mō te uwhi mata Kāore he herenga i runga i ngā huihuinga. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ēnei ngā tangihanga, ngā mārena, ngā huihuinga ā-hāhi me ngā huihuinga ā-hapori, ngā tākaro me ngā mahi a te rēhia. I te Pae Mataara 1, kua herea a KOWHEORI-19 engari ka whai hua tonu te ū kia tū tīrara i te hunga kāore e mōhiotia ana e koe ka puta ana koe ki hea rānei. Mā te pērā e tautāwhi te rerenga o KOWHEORI-19 mehemea ka rere anō te mate i waenga i te hapori. E āhei ana te rere noa o ngā whakahaere a ngā pakihi me ngā wāhi mahi. Me mātua whakaatu tonu rātou i te tohu QR o te NZ COVID Tracer , ā, me mātua whai hoki i pūnaha kē hei whakatewhatewha pāngaā ki ia papa. Me whakaatu tonu ngā waka tūmatanui i ngā tohu QR mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. E āhei ana kia tuwhera noa ngā kura, ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga me ngā kura tuatoru. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. He wā ōna ka āta whakaputaina he pūrongo hei whāngai rānei i te tangata ki te kōrero teka, hei tāware rānei i a rātou. E taupatupatu ana tērā ki a tātou i tēnei wā me mātua mahi ngātahi tātou hei turaki i te huaketo. He tohutohu e mau ai ngā pūrongo e tika ana Kāore anō a KOWHEORI-19 kia herea i tāwāhi. Kei te mau tonu ngā whakaritenga i ō tātou tawhā hei tautāwhi i te tūpono ka rere mai a KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi. Me mātua haere te hunga e tau mai ana ki Aotearoa ki ngā wāhi whakataratahi, atu i ngā wā kua kore e mate ki te pērā (ahakoa pēhea, me noho taratahi tonu). Ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā wāhi whakataratahi, kei ngā wāhi taratahi, kei ngā tūranga mahi hoki e nui ake nei te tūpono ka pāngia e te mate, he rite tonu te whakamātauria mō KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Rua mita te tawhiti i ērā atu nō waho i te kāinga, kia kotahi mita hoki i ērā atu i ngā wāhi mahi. Mau uwhi mata i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā rerenga hoki, i ngā wā hoki e uaua nei te tū tīrara, pēnei i ngā wā kei te hokomaha, kei ngā toa rānei. Rite tonu te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Maumahara, ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare me te rewharewha, me noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere rānei ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Puritia he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe, mō te hunga hoki ka torona e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. Kua herea kia kaua e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i ngā hui pēnei i ngā huinga karakia, i te hākinakina, i te taiopenga pāpori hoki. Kua whakaaetia te tokomaha atu ki te 100 tāngata i ngā tangihanga mehemea ka ea i te kaiwhakahaere ngā herenga. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga E āhei ana kia tuwhera ki ngā kaimahi me ngā kirihoko ngā wāhi pakihi e whakatutuki ana i ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ka whai wāhi ki ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui, ko: te whakaatu i tētahi pānui whakaahua kei reira te tohu QR o te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ko te whai i pūnaha whakatewhatewha pānga kē; ā, te ū ki ngā whakaritenga akuaku pēnei i te horoi ringa, i te auau hoki o te horoi mata, ā te whai i ngā aratohu e pā ana ki te tū tīrara. E āhei ana kia rere ngā ratonga ka tukuna ki ngā wāhi tonu o te kirihoko — hei tauira, ki tōna kāinga, me ngā ratonga pā tata e whakatutuki nei i ngā whakaritenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ki te kore e tutuki i te wāhi mahi ēnei whakaritenga, kua kore e āhei kia rere ana mahi. E whakatenatenahia ana ngā pakihi katoa kia whai i huarahi mahi kē mēnā ka taea, kia kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā tūraru me ngā huarahi hei whakatau i ērā. Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi ērā atu kawenga katoa mō te hauora me te haumaru, me whai hoki kia haumaru, kia ora tonu hoki ngā kaimahi, ā, me eke hoki rātou ki ngā paeraro e tika ana mō te tuku mahi. E tuwhera ana ngā Whare Ako Kōhungahunga, ngā whare kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā whare o ngā kura tuatoru ki ngā pakeketanga katoa. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. Me noho ngā tamariki me ngā taiohi ki te kāinga mēnā: kua māuiui kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 e noho taratahi ana e tāria ana ngā hua o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. Mēnā e ora ana koe, e pai ana tō hāereere. Heoi, me ū ki ngā tikanga e haumaru ai te haere. Me mau ārai i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā wā rānei e uaua ana te tū tīrara. Puritia he kōrero mō ō nekehanga. E pai ana tō kuhu ki ō mahi me ngā mahi ā-rēhia he rite tonu te mahia mēnā rā ka haumaru te mahia. Heoi mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. I a koe e whakapakari tinana ana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, me whai kia rua mita tō tawhiti i ngā tāngata kāore i te mōhiotia e koe. E āhei ana tō mahi i ngā mahi pēnei i te: hīkoi, i te eke paihikara me te aru kararehe i ngā whenua rāhui e tūmatanui ana kauhoe i tētahi puna kaukau e tūmatanui ana, engari arā anō ōna herenga haere ki te whare whakapakari tinana, eke poti me ngā tākaro i te wai ki runga waka whai mīhini. Me kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ngā tākaro i te hapori. Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te 100 tāngata ngā kaiwawao, ngā āpiha me kaimahi kē atu e tuku ratonga ana ki te tākaro. Kāore e herea ngā huihuinga mō ngā tākaro e whai kaitākaro ukiuki ana, e whai kaitākaro harangotengote ana rānei. E pēnei ana nā te mea e kīia ana ngā kaitākaro he kaimahi i te wāhi mahi. E kīia ana he huihuinga ngā kaimātakitaki, me te aha kua herea kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ia rōpū. E āhei ana kia tini tonu ngā wāhi kua tautuhia i te papa tākaro mā te whai: kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i te rōpū kia wehe tētahi rōpū i tētahi mā te ū tonu rānei kia 2 mita te tū tīrara i waho, mā te whakatū tauārai rānei Me whai kia kaua rānei ngā rōpū e kōmitimiti, e whai wāhi rānei ki te wāhi kotahi i te wā kotahi. Hei tauira, e āhei ana kia tākarohia te whutupōro mēnā kāore e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i te papa tākaro i te wā kotahi. Mēnā he pae mātakitaki kei ngā taha e rua o te papa tākaro, e āhei ana kia hui te tokomaha atu ki te 100 ki ia pae mātakitaki mehemea e wehe ana rātou i ērā kei tērā atu pae mātakitaki, i ngā kaitākaro me ngā kaiwawao hoki kei te papa tākaro. Ko ngā kaiwhakahaere me te tangata e whakahaere ana i te wāhi e noho haepapa ana ki te kohikohi i ngā pārongo mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He aratohu nā Ihi Aotearoa (external link) Kia kaua rawa te huihuinga pāpori e tokomaha ake i te 100 ki tētahi wāhi kua tautuhia i te wā kotahi. E whai wāhi ana ki tēnei: te manaaki manuhiri i tō kāinga ngā kaupapa ā-whānau ngā mārena ngā huinga karakia ngā ngohe a ngā karapu me ngā rōpū hākinakina o te hapori ngā hui tūmataiti pēnei i te huritau, i te pō tāriana rānei. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te paerunga o te 100 tāngata ngā kaimahi e tuku ratonga ana ki te huihuinga pāpori. Me mā tonu ngā mata, horoia ō ringa, ā, i ngā wā e taea ana, me haumaru te tū tīrara. Mēnā kāore e taea te ū kia tawhiti ā-tinana nei koe i te hunga kāore i te mōhiotia e koe, whakaarotia te mau uwhi mata. E ai ki te ture, me mātua takoto i te kaiwhakahaere o te hui ngā ingoa o te hunga ka tae ake e taea ai te whakatewhatewha pānga mehemea me pērā. Ehara i te mea me pērā mehemea e mōhio ana te katoa ki te katoa, heoi anō he pai tonu te whakaaro kia pērā. Mehemea kua rīhingia e koe tētahi wāhi hei huihuinga noa iho mō te tāngata, e pūmau tonu ana ngā ture e pā ana ki te huihuinga. --- Section Separator --- Rua mita te tawhiti i ērā atu nō waho i te kāinga, kia kotahi mita hoki i ērā atu i ngā wāhi mahi. Mau uwhi mata i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā rerenga hoki, i ngā wā hoki e uaua nei te tū tīrara, pēnei i ngā wā kei te hokomaha, kei ngā toa rānei. Rite tonu te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Maumahara, ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare me te rewharewha, me noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere rānei ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Puritia he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe, mō te hunga hoki ka torona e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. Kua herea kia kaua e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i ngā hui pēnei i ngā huinga karakia, i te hākinakina, i te taiopenga pāpori hoki. Kua whakaaetia te tokomaha atu ki te 100 tāngata i ngā tangihanga mehemea ka ea i te kaiwhakahaere ngā herenga. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga E āhei ana kia tuwhera ki ngā kaimahi me ngā kirihoko ngā wāhi pakihi e whakatutuki ana i ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ka whai wāhi ki ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui, ko: te whakaatu i tētahi pānui whakaahua kei reira te tohu QR o te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ko te whai i pūnaha whakatewhatewha pānga kē; ā, te ū ki ngā whakaritenga akuaku pēnei i te horoi ringa, i te auau hoki o te horoi mata, ā te whai i ngā aratohu e pā ana ki te tū tīrara. E āhei ana kia rere ngā ratonga ka tukuna ki ngā wāhi tonu o te kirihoko — hei tauira, ki tōna kāinga, me ngā ratonga pā tata e whakatutuki nei i ngā whakaritenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ki te kore e tutuki i te wāhi mahi ēnei whakaritenga, kua kore e āhei kia rere ana mahi. E whakatenatenahia ana ngā pakihi katoa kia whai i huarahi mahi kē mēnā ka taea, kia kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā tūraru me ngā huarahi hei whakatau i ērā. Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi ērā atu kawenga katoa mō te hauora me te haumaru, me whai hoki kia haumaru, kia ora tonu hoki ngā kaimahi, ā, me eke hoki rātou ki ngā paeraro e tika ana mō te tuku mahi. E tuwhera ana ngā Whare Ako Kōhungahunga, ngā whare kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā whare o ngā kura tuatoru ki ngā pakeketanga katoa. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. Me noho ngā tamariki me ngā taiohi ki te kāinga mēnā: kua māuiui kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 e noho taratahi ana e tāria ana ngā hua o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. Mēnā e ora ana koe, e pai ana tō hāereere. Heoi, me ū ki ngā tikanga e haumaru ai te haere. Me mau ārai i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā wā rānei e uaua ana te tū tīrara. Puritia he kōrero mō ō nekehanga. E pai ana tō kuhu ki ō mahi me ngā mahi ā-rēhia he rite tonu te mahia mēnā rā ka haumaru te mahia. Heoi mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. I a koe e whakapakari tinana ana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, me whai kia rua mita tō tawhiti i ngā tāngata kāore i te mōhiotia e koe. E āhei ana tō mahi i ngā mahi pēnei i te: hīkoi, i te eke paihikara me te aru kararehe i ngā whenua rāhui e tūmatanui ana kauhoe i tētahi puna kaukau e tūmatanui ana, engari arā anō ōna herenga haere ki te whare whakapakari tinana, eke poti me ngā tākaro i te wai ki runga waka whai mīhini. Me kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ngā tākaro i te hapori. Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te 100 tāngata ngā kaiwawao, ngā āpiha me kaimahi kē atu e tuku ratonga ana ki te tākaro. Kāore e herea ngā huihuinga mō ngā tākaro e whai kaitākaro ukiuki ana, e whai kaitākaro harangotengote ana rānei. E pēnei ana nā te mea e kīia ana ngā kaitākaro he kaimahi i te wāhi mahi. E kīia ana he huihuinga ngā kaimātakitaki, me te aha kua herea kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ia rōpū. E āhei ana kia tini tonu ngā wāhi kua tautuhia i te papa tākaro mā te whai: kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i te rōpū kia wehe tētahi rōpū i tētahi mā te ū tonu rānei kia 2 mita te tū tīrara i waho, mā te whakatū tauārai rānei Me whai kia kaua rānei ngā rōpū e kōmitimiti, e whai wāhi rānei ki te wāhi kotahi i te wā kotahi. Hei tauira, e āhei ana kia tākarohia te whutupōro mēnā kāore e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i te papa tākaro i te wā kotahi. Mēnā he pae mātakitaki kei ngā taha e rua o te papa tākaro, e āhei ana kia hui te tokomaha atu ki te 100 ki ia pae mātakitaki mehemea e wehe ana rātou i ērā kei tērā atu pae mātakitaki, i ngā kaitākaro me ngā kaiwawao hoki kei te papa tākaro. Ko ngā kaiwhakahaere me te tangata e whakahaere ana i te wāhi e noho haepapa ana ki te kohikohi i ngā pārongo mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He aratohu nā Ihi Aotearoa (external link) Kia kaua rawa te huihuinga pāpori e tokomaha ake i te 100 ki tētahi wāhi kua tautuhia i te wā kotahi. E whai wāhi ana ki tēnei: te manaaki manuhiri i tō kāinga ngā kaupapa ā-whānau ngā mārena ngā huinga karakia ngā ngohe a ngā karapu me ngā rōpū hākinakina o te hapori ngā hui tūmataiti pēnei i te huritau, i te pō tāriana rānei. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te paerunga o te 100 tāngata ngā kaimahi e tuku ratonga ana ki te huihuinga pāpori. Me mā tonu ngā mata, horoia ō ringa, ā, i ngā wā e taea ana, me haumaru te tū tīrara. Mēnā kāore e taea te ū kia tawhiti ā-tinana nei koe i te hunga kāore i te mōhiotia e koe, whakaarotia te mau uwhi mata. E ai ki te ture, me mātua takoto i te kaiwhakahaere o te hui ngā ingoa o te hunga ka tae ake e taea ai te whakatewhatewha pānga mehemea me pērā. Ehara i te mea me pērā mehemea e mōhio ana te katoa ki te katoa, heoi anō he pai tonu te whakaaro kia pērā. Mehemea kua rīhingia e koe tētahi wāhi hei huihuinga noa iho mō te tāngata, e pūmau tonu ana ngā ture e pā ana ki te huihuinga. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Me noho koe ki te kāinga kei hora te mate. Me mahi mai i te kāinga, māna kāore e taea. Me ako mai i te kāinga ngā tamariki ina taea. Mehemea kei te māuiui koe, me noho ki te kāinga. Kaua e haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei. Kaua e haere ki te kite i ētahi atu tāngata. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Mehemea kua kīia ai koe kia noho taratahi, i raro i te ture me pērā koe inamata. Mehemea kua whakamātauria ki te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, i raro i te ture me noho taratahi koe ki tō kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō koe i ō whakatau. Te huaketo me ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 Te whakamātautanga Ko tā ngā tāngata katoa i Tāmakimakaurau: Me tū tīrara 2 mita te tawhiti i ētahi atu i waho atu o te kāinga, me te kotahi mita i ngā wāhi mahi. Me mau uhia kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, ngā rerenga, ina he uaua te tū tīrara rānei, pēnā ki te hokomaha me ngā toa. Kia auau te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei kia whakamātauria ai koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Me whakataki ō haerenga, me ngā tāngata ka kitea e koe i tō haerenga. Whakamahia te taupānga Whakataki KOWHEORI Aotearoa, he pukapuka whakataki Kowheori-19, he tuhinga taipitopito rānei. Whakakāngia te whakataki ā-Hono Iarere E whakaaetia ana ngā huihuinga o te 10 tāngata iti ake rānei, heoi anō, mō ngā mārena, ngā nehunga me ngā tangihanga anake. Ā-ture nei me tū tīrara, me whai hoki i ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Ā-ture nei me mau uhi kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, i runga i ngā rerenga ā-motu hoki. E tino whakatenatena ana kia kaha te mau uhi kanohi i ngā tūāhuatanga kāore e taea te tū tīrara, pēnā ki ngā toa. Ngā uhi kanohi He mea nui kia whai koe i ngā āhuatanga māmā o te tikanga akuaku, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te maremare, te matihe rānei ki te whatianga o tō ringa, me te hori o ngā papa katoa. E tino whakatenatenahia ana kia whakatakina ō haerenga, me te hunga ka kite ai koe. He mea āwhina i te whakataki tere i te tangata ina hiahiatia. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, mehemea kāore koe i te mahi, i te kura rānei, ā-ture nei me hoki koe ki tō mirumiru kāinga noho ai. E āhei ana koe ki te whakawhānui ake i tēnei: kia pai ai tō hono atu ki te whānau takapiri kia herea mai he kaitiaki, rānei ki te tautoko i ngā tāngata e noho taratahi ana. He mea nui kia tiakina tō mirumiru. Me tāuke tō mirumiru, me whakaae anake kia uru mai te tangata mehemea ka pai tāu, me tā rātou noho haumaru, noho hauora anō hoki. Ki te māuiui haere tētahi i roto i tō mirumiru, ā-ture nei me noho taratahi rātou i ētahi atu i te mirumiru.  Kaua e pōhiri, e whakaae rānei ki ngā manuhiri, pērā ki ngā hoa, te whānau whānui, whānau rānei ki te kuhu mai ki tō kāinga. E āhei ana to hāereere i tō ake rohe, hei tauira, mō te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei, ki te hokohoko, ki te whakapakari tinana rānei. E āhei ana te haere tonu o ngā waka tūmatanui i runga i ngā tino herenga hauora, haumaru hoki. Ki te Pae Mataara 3 kua tino herea ngā haerenga i waenga i ngā rohe. Kua tino herea te haerenga atu me te haerenga mai i ngā rohe Pae Mataara 3. Hei aukati i te hora o te mate tēnei mahi. Me tono whakaaetanga koe i tua atu kia pai ai tō haerenga i tētahi rohe Pae Mataara ki tētahi rohe Pae Mataara. I runga i te ture me kati rawa ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Tae atu tēnei ki ngā whare pukapuka, ngā whare taonga, ngā whare pikitia, ngā kōti kai, ngā whare whakapakari tinana, ngā puna kaukau, ngā papatākaro me ngā mākete. Ehara tēnei i te wā ki te ako i ngā ngohe hou, ki te hura rānei i a koe, i tō mirumiru rānei ki te mōrea. E āhei ana ngā ngohe ā-rēhia, iti te mōrea, ki tō ake rohe. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, kua whakaritea he herenga ki te whakahaumaru i ngā kaimahi, ki te whakaiti hoki i te tāutuutu i waenga i ngā kaimahi me ngā kiritaki, hei ara aukati i te hora o te KOWHEORI-19.  Ko te tino tohutohu kia mahi mai i te kāinga ngā kaimahi ina taea. Mehemea kei te raru koe mō te taha moni, arā pea he āwhina māu. He tautoko mō te taha ki te kai, ki te moni, ki te noho, ki te noho haumaru, noho ora anō hoki --- Section Separator --- Me noho koe ki te kāinga kei hora te mate. Me mahi mai i te kāinga, māna kāore e taea. Me ako mai i te kāinga ngā tamariki ina taea. Mehemea kei te māuiui koe, me noho ki te kāinga. Kaua e haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei. Kaua e haere ki te kite i ētahi atu tāngata. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Mehemea kua kīia ai koe kia noho taratahi, i raro i te ture me pērā koe inamata. Mehemea kua whakamātauria ki te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, i raro i te ture me noho taratahi koe ki tō kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō koe i ō whakatau. Te huaketo me ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 Te whakamātautanga Ko tā ngā tāngata katoa i Tāmakimakaurau: Me tū tīrara 2 mita te tawhiti i ētahi atu i waho atu o te kāinga, me te kotahi mita i ngā wāhi mahi. Me mau uhia kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, ngā rerenga, ina he uaua te tū tīrara rānei, pēnā ki te hokomaha me ngā toa. Kia auau te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei kia whakamātauria ai koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Me whakataki ō haerenga, me ngā tāngata ka kitea e koe i tō haerenga. Whakamahia te taupānga Whakataki KOWHEORI Aotearoa, he pukapuka whakataki Kowheori-19, he tuhinga taipitopito rānei. Whakakāngia te whakataki ā-Hono Iarere E whakaaetia ana ngā huihuinga o te 10 tāngata iti ake rānei, heoi anō, mō ngā mārena, ngā nehunga me ngā tangihanga anake. Ā-ture nei me tū tīrara, me whai hoki i ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Ā-ture nei me mau uhi kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, i runga i ngā rerenga ā-motu hoki. E tino whakatenatena ana kia kaha te mau uhi kanohi i ngā tūāhuatanga kāore e taea te tū tīrara, pēnā ki ngā toa. Ngā uhi kanohi He mea nui kia whai koe i ngā āhuatanga māmā o te tikanga akuaku, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te maremare, te matihe rānei ki te whatianga o tō ringa, me te hori o ngā papa katoa. E tino whakatenatenahia ana kia whakatakina ō haerenga, me te hunga ka kite ai koe. He mea āwhina i te whakataki tere i te tangata ina hiahiatia. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, mehemea kāore koe i te mahi, i te kura rānei, ā-ture nei me hoki koe ki tō mirumiru kāinga noho ai. E āhei ana koe ki te whakawhānui ake i tēnei: kia pai ai tō hono atu ki te whānau takapiri kia herea mai he kaitiaki, rānei ki te tautoko i ngā tāngata e noho taratahi ana. He mea nui kia tiakina tō mirumiru. Me tāuke tō mirumiru, me whakaae anake kia uru mai te tangata mehemea ka pai tāu, me tā rātou noho haumaru, noho hauora anō hoki. Ki te māuiui haere tētahi i roto i tō mirumiru, ā-ture nei me noho taratahi rātou i ētahi atu i te mirumiru.  Kaua e pōhiri, e whakaae rānei ki ngā manuhiri, pērā ki ngā hoa, te whānau whānui, whānau rānei ki te kuhu mai ki tō kāinga. E āhei ana to hāereere i tō ake rohe, hei tauira, mō te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei, ki te hokohoko, ki te whakapakari tinana rānei. E āhei ana te haere tonu o ngā waka tūmatanui i runga i ngā tino herenga hauora, haumaru hoki. Ki te Pae Mataara 3 kua tino herea ngā haerenga i waenga i ngā rohe. Kua tino herea te haerenga atu me te haerenga mai i ngā rohe Pae Mataara 3. Hei aukati i te hora o te mate tēnei mahi. Me tono whakaaetanga koe i tua atu kia pai ai tō haerenga i tētahi rohe Pae Mataara ki tētahi rohe Pae Mataara. I runga i te ture me kati rawa ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Tae atu tēnei ki ngā whare pukapuka, ngā whare taonga, ngā whare pikitia, ngā kōti kai, ngā whare whakapakari tinana, ngā puna kaukau, ngā papatākaro me ngā mākete. Ehara tēnei i te wā ki te ako i ngā ngohe hou, ki te hura rānei i a koe, i tō mirumiru rānei ki te mōrea. E āhei ana ngā ngohe ā-rēhia, iti te mōrea, ki tō ake rohe. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, kua whakaritea he herenga ki te whakahaumaru i ngā kaimahi, ki te whakaiti hoki i te tāutuutu i waenga i ngā kaimahi me ngā kiritaki, hei ara aukati i te hora o te KOWHEORI-19.  Ko te tino tohutohu kia mahi mai i te kāinga ngā kaimahi ina taea. Mehemea kei te raru koe mō te taha moni, arā pea he āwhina māu. He tautoko mō te taha ki te kai, ki te moni, ki te noho, ki te noho haumaru, noho ora anō hoki --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Mō te Pae Mataara 4 me: Noho koe ki te kāinga, atu i te koringa mōu ake me whai. Me tapu tō poihau. He mea nui te tiaki i ngā tāngata i tō poihau. Me 2 mita te tawhiti i ngā tāngata o poihau kē atu i a koe e wehe atu ana i te kāinga ki te koringa mōu ake. Me haere ki te papa tata ki a koe ki te kori, ki te hokomaha tata hoki ki te hoko, kaua ko te mea pai rawa atu ki a koe. Katia ngā kaipakihi katoa e mahi kanohi ki te kanohi ana. Ka puare tonu ētahi kaipakihi engari ka tino rāhuitia. Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau hoki tētahi ina uaua kē te tū tīrara. Me auau te horoi, te whakamaroke hoki i ō ringaringa. He mea nui kia auau te whai i ngā tikanga akuaku noa, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te mare, te tihe rānei ki tō tuke, te whakapai hoki i ngā papa. Whāia ngā wāhi i tae atu ai koe mā te taupānga Haurapa Mate Korona Aotearoa, mā te puka haurapa Mate Korona, mā te tuhituhi noa rānei. He āwhinatanga tēnei e wawe ai te haurapa pānga mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Haere kia whakamātautauria koe mēnā kua pāngia koe e te maremare, e te rewharewha, e ngā tohu Mate Korona rānei. Hei whai tohutohu mō te whakamātaunga, waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 . Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te huaketo me ngā tohu o te Mate Korona Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te Whakamātautau Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te haurapa Hono Iarere Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei. Pāwhiria i konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi Kua katia katoatia ngā Akomanga Kōhungahunga, ngā puna kōhungahunga, ngā kura, me ngā kura wānanga. Mā te tino whai take e taea ai te haere ki rohe kē. Me kati ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Ko ēnei ko ngā whare pukapuka, ko ngā whare pupuri taonga, ko ngā whare pikitia, ko ngā papa kai, ko ngā whare hākinakina, ko ngā puna kaukau, ko ngā papa tākaro, ko ngā mākete hoki. Kāore e whakaaetia kia tū ngā hui tūmatanui. Ko ēnei ko ngā tākaro, ko ngā mārena, ko ngā uhunga, tangihanga rānei, te aha noa. Me kaua koe e whakapā ā-tinana atu ki tētahi atu i tō ake poihau. E taea ai te korikori, te tākaro māmā hoki ki roto i tō rohe tata, hei tauira, e āhei ana ki te hīkoi, ki te oma rānei tata ki tō kāinga. Ehara tēnei i te wā kia whāia e koe he koringa hou. Me mahi i mamao ngā kaipakihi katoa atu i ērā kua tohua hei ratonga whai tikanga. Me whai ritenga e haumaru ai ngā kaimahi, me whakatiki i ngā whakapānga ki ngā kiritaki, me whakatiki hoki i te horanga o te Mate Korona. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi tuku ratonga pērā i ngā ratonga hauora, ngā ratonga whaipainga, me ngā kaikawe utanga. Me whai tonu ngā kaitukumahi i ēnei tū mahi i ngā tikanga hauora, haumaru anō. Ki te tūpono ka ohotata (pērā i te ahi, te rū whenua, te tai āniwhaniwha, te aha noa) whāia ngā ritenga ohotata. Ka whai mana kē atu ēnei ritenga ohotata i ērā o te Mate Korona, heoi me tū tīrara tonu i ngā wā e taea ai. Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero hei ārahi i a koe i ngā wā ohotata Mēnā e raru ana koe i te whai moni, i te kai, kua raru ā-hinengaro, ā-tinana rānei, tērā he āwhinatanga hei whai māu. Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i te tangata takitahi Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i ngā kaipakihi --- Section Separator --- Mō te Pae Mataara 4 me: Noho koe ki te kāinga, atu i te koringa mōu ake me whai. Me tapu tō poihau. He mea nui te tiaki i ngā tāngata i tō poihau. Me 2 mita te tawhiti i ngā tāngata o poihau kē atu i a koe e wehe atu ana i te kāinga ki te koringa mōu ake. Me haere ki te papa tata ki a koe ki te kori, ki te hokomaha tata hoki ki te hoko, kaua ko te mea pai rawa atu ki a koe. Katia ngā kaipakihi katoa e mahi kanohi ki te kanohi ana. Ka puare tonu ētahi kaipakihi engari ka tino rāhuitia. Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau hoki tētahi ina uaua kē te tū tīrara. Me auau te horoi, te whakamaroke hoki i ō ringaringa. He mea nui kia auau te whai i ngā tikanga akuaku noa, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te mare, te tihe rānei ki tō tuke, te whakapai hoki i ngā papa. Whāia ngā wāhi i tae atu ai koe mā te taupānga Haurapa Mate Korona Aotearoa, mā te puka haurapa Mate Korona, mā te tuhituhi noa rānei. He āwhinatanga tēnei e wawe ai te haurapa pānga mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Haere kia whakamātautauria koe mēnā kua pāngia koe e te maremare, e te rewharewha, e ngā tohu Mate Korona rānei. Hei whai tohutohu mō te whakamātaunga, waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 . Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te huaketo me ngā tohu o te Mate Korona Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te Whakamātautau Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te haurapa Hono Iarere Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei. Pāwhiria i konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi Kua katia katoatia ngā Akomanga Kōhungahunga, ngā puna kōhungahunga, ngā kura, me ngā kura wānanga. Mā te tino whai take e taea ai te haere ki rohe kē. Me kati ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Ko ēnei ko ngā whare pukapuka, ko ngā whare pupuri taonga, ko ngā whare pikitia, ko ngā papa kai, ko ngā whare hākinakina, ko ngā puna kaukau, ko ngā papa tākaro, ko ngā mākete hoki. Kāore e whakaaetia kia tū ngā hui tūmatanui. Ko ēnei ko ngā tākaro, ko ngā mārena, ko ngā uhunga, tangihanga rānei, te aha noa. Me kaua koe e whakapā ā-tinana atu ki tētahi atu i tō ake poihau. E taea ai te korikori, te tākaro māmā hoki ki roto i tō rohe tata, hei tauira, e āhei ana ki te hīkoi, ki te oma rānei tata ki tō kāinga. Ehara tēnei i te wā kia whāia e koe he koringa hou. Me mahi i mamao ngā kaipakihi katoa atu i ērā kua tohua hei ratonga whai tikanga. Me whai ritenga e haumaru ai ngā kaimahi, me whakatiki i ngā whakapānga ki ngā kiritaki, me whakatiki hoki i te horanga o te Mate Korona. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi tuku ratonga pērā i ngā ratonga hauora, ngā ratonga whaipainga, me ngā kaikawe utanga. Me whai tonu ngā kaitukumahi i ēnei tū mahi i ngā tikanga hauora, haumaru anō. Ki te tūpono ka ohotata (pērā i te ahi, te rū whenua, te tai āniwhaniwha, te aha noa) whāia ngā ritenga ohotata. Ka whai mana kē atu ēnei ritenga ohotata i ērā o te Mate Korona, heoi me tū tīrara tonu i ngā wā e taea ai. Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero hei ārahi i a koe i ngā wā ohotata Mēnā e raru ana koe i te whai moni, i te kai, kua raru ā-hinengaro, ā-tinana rānei, tērā he āwhinatanga hei whai māu. Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i te tangata takitahi Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i ngā kaipakihi --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae --- Section Separator --- The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please don't share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please don't share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Ka noho tonu ko te kauparenga nui mō tātou ko te ārai atu i te huaketo mai i Aotearoa. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi te nuinga o ngā kaihāereere ki Aotearoa i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI019 i mua i te wehe e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana, i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga tuatahi ki tāwāhi. Ka wātea ngā whenua e whai ake nei i tētahi whakamātau i mua i te wehenga: Te Tiri o te Moana (Antarctica) Kuki Airani (The Cook Islands) Ngā Whenua Tōpū o Maikoronihia (Federated States of Micronesia) Whītī (Fiji) Kiripati Ngā Moutere o Marshall Nauru Kanaki (New Caledonia) Niue Pārao Hāmoa (Samoa) Ngā Motu o Horomona (Solomon Islands) Tokerau Tonga Tūwaru Whenuatū Kua whakaūngia e te Manatu Hauora ngā momo whakamātautau e whai ake nei e whakaaetia ana mō ngā whenua katoa hāunga ngā whenua o Ahitereiria me ngā whenua tino mōrearea: Whakamātau Whakarahi Waikawa Karihi (NAAT), kei roto ko te PCR, RT-PCR me te TMA, LAMP, whakamātau ā-paturopi (tērā pea e kīia ana he whakamātau wheori paturopi) rānei. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi ngā kaihāereere mai i Ahitereiria i ngā whakamātautau PCR, RT-PCR rānei i mua i te wehenga. Me whai taunakitanga rawa ngā kaihāereere mai i ngā whenua tino mōrearea o tētahi whakamātautau ihu-korokoro RT-PCR (PCR) e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana. Kimihia ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whenua tino mōrearea Ka wātea ngā tamariki i raro iho i te rua tau (24 marama) i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ka wātea ngā kaihāereere e whakawhiti ana mā Aotearoa ki tō rātou taunga whakamutunga, me te noho i te taha rerenga, i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ko ngā kaihāereere kāore e āhei atu te whai whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, me toro atu ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga. Me tuku rātou i tētahi tiwhikete rongoā ki a koe e kī ana e kore koe e āhei ki te whai tētahi whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, ā, kāore i a koe ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he whakamātautau tāu i mua i te wehenga e kī ana kua whai tohumate koe, engari e whakapono ana koe nā tētahi whakapokenga o mua o te KOWHEORI-19, me toro atu koe ki tētahi tākuta māna koe e tirotiro mō ngā tohumate hou o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e tino mōhio ana ia kāore i a koe tētahi pokenga KOWHEORI-19 i taua wā tonu, māna e tuku ki a koe: tētahi tiwhikete rongoā me te rā o tō whakamātautau o mua e kī ana kei te mate, ā, mēnā e hāngai ana, ngā tuhinga e whāki ana, e whakaaro ana ia kua kore koe e pokea e te KOWHEORI-19. E whakaaetia ana ngā tiwhikete rongoā i roto i ngā reo kē. E tino tohutohua ana te hunga haere ki te pātai ki tō(ō) rātau kamupene rererangi mō ētahi atu whakaritenga whakamātau i mua i te wehenga. E tohutohua ana hoki rātau kia tirotirohia nga whakaritenga o ētahi atu whenua ka whakawhitia e rātau. Kia tae ki Aotearoa, e hiahiatia ana te nuinga o te hunga haere, hāunga ērā e haere mai ana hei wāhi ote Haerenga Taratahi Kore , kia: Noho mō te 14 rā i roto i tā mātau tukanga noho mohoao, taratahi hoki whiwhi i tētahi whakamātau PCR KOWHEORI-19 i te rā 0, arā, i tō rātau taenga ki te wāhi noho mohoao mō te wā tuatahi noho ki roto i tō rātou rūma kia tutuki rā anō te putanga o taua whakamātautau mēnā he tohumate ō rātou i te taetanga atu, ka kawea tikahia ki tētahi whare noho taratahi. Ko te tikanga ka 24-48 hāora te roa i mua i te whiwhinga i ngā hua whakamātautau. Mēnā ka kī te whakamātautau kāore te tangata i te mate, ka tutuki i a ia te toenga o te 14 rā i roto i te wāhi noho mohoao. Ka whakaritea kia whakamātautauria anō rātou i te rā 3 pea o te noho, ā, me te rā 12. I te nuinga o ngā kēhi, e hiahiatia ana tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e kī ana kāore te tangata i te mate me te whakaūtanga mai i tā mātou rōpū hauora he iti te mōrearea kua pāngia, o te horapa rānei i te KOWHEORI-19, i mua i te wehenga i te whare noho. Mēnā e ai ki te otinga kei te pāngia te tangata, ka whakawhitia taua tangata ki te whare noho taratahi i mua noa atu mēnā kāore he whakamātautau rā 0. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō te Haere Taratahi Kore Mō ngā whakahounga hou rawa o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā toro atu ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te noho mohoao me te noho taratahi tēnā toro atu ki: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ka noho tonu ko te kauparenga nui mō tātou ko te ārai atu i te huaketo mai i Aotearoa. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi te nuinga o ngā kaihāereere ki Aotearoa i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI019 i mua i te wehe e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana, i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga tuatahi ki tāwāhi. Ka wātea ngā whenua e whai ake nei i tētahi whakamātau i mua i te wehenga: Te Tiri o te Moana (Antarctica) Kuki Airani (The Cook Islands) Ngā Whenua Tōpū o Maikoronihia (Federated States of Micronesia) Whītī (Fiji) Kiripati Ngā Moutere o Marshall Nauru Kanaki (New Caledonia) Niue Pārao Hāmoa (Samoa) Ngā Motu o Horomona (Solomon Islands) Tokerau Tonga Tūwaru Whenuatū Kua whakaūngia e te Manatu Hauora ngā momo whakamātautau e whai ake nei e whakaaetia ana mō ngā whenua katoa hāunga ngā whenua o Ahitereiria me ngā whenua tino mōrearea: Whakamātau Whakarahi Waikawa Karihi (NAAT), kei roto ko te PCR, RT-PCR me te TMA, LAMP, whakamātau ā-paturopi (tērā pea e kīia ana he whakamātau wheori paturopi) rānei. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi ngā kaihāereere mai i Ahitereiria i ngā whakamātautau PCR, RT-PCR rānei i mua i te wehenga. Me whai taunakitanga rawa ngā kaihāereere mai i ngā whenua tino mōrearea o tētahi whakamātautau ihu-korokoro RT-PCR (PCR) e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana. Kimihia ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whenua tino mōrearea Ka wātea ngā tamariki i raro iho i te rua tau (24 marama) i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ka wātea ngā kaihāereere e whakawhiti ana mā Aotearoa ki tō rātou taunga whakamutunga, me te noho i te taha rerenga, i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ko ngā kaihāereere kāore e āhei atu te whai whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, me toro atu ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga. Me tuku rātou i tētahi tiwhikete rongoā ki a koe e kī ana e kore koe e āhei ki te whai tētahi whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, ā, kāore i a koe ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he whakamātautau tāu i mua i te wehenga e kī ana kua whai tohumate koe, engari e whakapono ana koe nā tētahi whakapokenga o mua o te KOWHEORI-19, me toro atu koe ki tētahi tākuta māna koe e tirotiro mō ngā tohumate hou o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e tino mōhio ana ia kāore i a koe tētahi pokenga KOWHEORI-19 i taua wā tonu, māna e tuku ki a koe: tētahi tiwhikete rongoā me te rā o tō whakamātautau o mua e kī ana kei te mate, ā, mēnā e hāngai ana, ngā tuhinga e whāki ana, e whakaaro ana ia kua kore koe e pokea e te KOWHEORI-19. E whakaaetia ana ngā tiwhikete rongoā i roto i ngā reo kē. E tino tohutohua ana te hunga haere ki te pātai ki tō(ō) rātau kamupene rererangi mō ētahi atu whakaritenga whakamātau i mua i te wehenga. E tohutohua ana hoki rātau kia tirotirohia nga whakaritenga o ētahi atu whenua ka whakawhitia e rātau. Kia tae ki Aotearoa, e hiahiatia ana te nuinga o te hunga haere, hāunga ērā e haere mai ana hei wāhi ote Haerenga Taratahi Kore , kia: Noho mō te 14 rā i roto i tā mātau tukanga noho mohoao, taratahi hoki whiwhi i tētahi whakamātau PCR KOWHEORI-19 i te rā 0, arā, i tō rātau taenga ki te wāhi noho mohoao mō te wā tuatahi noho ki roto i tō rātou rūma kia tutuki rā anō te putanga o taua whakamātautau mēnā he tohumate ō rātou i te taetanga atu, ka kawea tikahia ki tētahi whare noho taratahi. Ko te tikanga ka 24-48 hāora te roa i mua i te whiwhinga i ngā hua whakamātautau. Mēnā ka kī te whakamātautau kāore te tangata i te mate, ka tutuki i a ia te toenga o te 14 rā i roto i te wāhi noho mohoao. Ka whakaritea kia whakamātautauria anō rātou i te rā 3 pea o te noho, ā, me te rā 12. I te nuinga o ngā kēhi, e hiahiatia ana tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e kī ana kāore te tangata i te mate me te whakaūtanga mai i tā mātou rōpū hauora he iti te mōrearea kua pāngia, o te horapa rānei i te KOWHEORI-19, i mua i te wehenga i te whare noho. Mēnā e ai ki te otinga kei te pāngia te tangata, ka whakawhitia taua tangata ki te whare noho taratahi i mua noa atu mēnā kāore he whakamātautau rā 0. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō te Haere Taratahi Kore Mō ngā whakahounga hou rawa o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā toro atu ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te noho mohoao me te noho taratahi tēnā toro atu ki: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel --- Section Separator --- I tēnei wā, he ritenga Taratahi-Kore tō Aotearoa me ēnei motu: Ahitereiria Kūki Airani Niue (mai i Niue ki Aotearoa anake) Ko te tikanga o te Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te neke mai i tētahi motu ki tētahi me te kore noho taratahi inā ka tae atu koe. Kāore hoki he take o te whakamātautau i mua i tāu wehenga. Ka taea e te tangata te Haere Taratahi-Kore noa inā tatū ngā paearu ritenga, me ngā ritenga take manene o te motu e haere nā koe. I tēnei wā, ko ngā Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te haere i waenganui o Aotearoa me tētahi atu motu anake. Hei tauira, ka āhei koe ki te Haere Taratahi-Kore i waenganui o Kūki Airani me Aotearoa, engari me noho taratahi rawa koe mō te 14 rā i mua i te haerenga ki te whenua Taratahi-Kore o Ahitereiria. Māna kei te noho kape koe, me mau ārai kanohi, uhi kanohi rānei inā haere mai ana koe ki Aotearoa, inā wehe atu ana rānei. Me mau ārai kanohi hoki koe i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui katoa o Aotearoa. Ko ētahi anō tāngata kāore he take ki te mau ārai kanohi. Ki te panoni Te Pae Mataara ki Aotearoa, ki te rerekē rānei te āhuatanga ki tētahi motu Haere Taratahi-Kore, ka pāhongia e tēnei pae tukutuku ( covid19.govt.nz ), me ngā pae tukutuku rongo kōrero. Ki te puta anō te mate ki te hapori i Aotearoa nei, i tētahi motu Taratahi-Kore rānei, tērā ka whakatūria e te Kāwanatanga te haere taratahi-kore hei aromātai i te tūraru, tērā rānei hīkina ngā haerenga mō tētahi wā roa ake. Me whai mahere te hunga haere, me rite hoki mō te tūpono raru rānei i ōu haerenga. Tirohia mai ngā whakamārama hou rawa mō Te Haere Taratahi-Kore E āhei ai koe ki te haere taratahi-kore ki Aotearoa: me tatū rawa ngā ritenga manene katoa me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki te motu rānei e haere nā koe mō te 14 rā. Hei tauira, mēnā e wehe ana koe i Ahitereiria, me mātua noho koe ki Ahitereiria, ki Aotearoa rānei mō te 14 rā e wātea ai ki te haere taratahi-kore. Ka wātea koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā mēnā kāore koe i raru i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga. Mēnā kua pāngia kē koe, me mātua whiwhi tuhi whakaaetanga koe i tētahi kaimahi hauora, e kī ana kua makere katoa atu te mate i a koe mēnā kāore koe i te tiaki kia hoki mai he whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 me whakakī rawa he tauākī haerenga (external link) – mēnā kāore e whakakīa kāore koe e whakaaetia kia kake i te waka rererangi me whakautu rawa he pātai e pā ana ki tō hauora hei te wehenga atu. Mēnā he mate tōu e taunaki ana i ōu tohumate, me kawe mai e koe tētahi tiwhikete hauora kia kore ai koe e aukatia ki te kake i te waka rererangi. Tāutangia, whakamahia hoki te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Kāore he raru nō Aotearoa rānei tō waea pūkoro, tō kaute Āporo, tō kaute Kūkara rānei, mō te tāuta i te Kaiaru KOWHEORI. Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā kei a koe ngā tohumate o te hūwiniwini, o te rewharewha o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki: te waea-hauora Healthline i te nama kore-utu 0800 358 5453 tō rata, rānei tō kaiwhakarato hauora ā-iwi rānei. Mā te mātanga hauora e tohu atu mēnā me whakamātautau koe. Tēnā waea atu ki tō rata i mua i tō haerenga atu mēnā he tohumate ōu. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Ahitereiria: me tatū ngā ritenga manene me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki Ahitereiria rānei mō te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga – arā ka āhei koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā. me whakakī rawa he tauākī haere kia 72 hāora rawa i mua i te wehenga atu i Aotearoa ( https://covid19.homeaffairs.gov.au/australia-traveldeclaration (external link) ) mēnā kāore ōu tohumate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā kāore koe i pāngia e tētahi tangata mate KOWHEORI-19 me tiro rawa kei te whakaae te rohe te takiwā rānei e haere ana koe, ki ngā rererangi Taratahi-Kore. I a koe i Ahitereiria, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. Mō ngā whakamārama mõ te KOWHEORI-19, mō ngā wāhi aronui, mō ngā tūāhua haerenga (tae atu ki ngā haerenga o te motu) me ngā whakamātautau, haere koa ki te pae tukutuku o te rohe kei reira koe. E whai ake nei ko ngā pārongo KOWHEORI-19 mō ia rohe, mō ia takiwā rānei: Te Takiwā Matua o Ahitereiria (external link) Niu Taute Wēra (external link) Te Takiwā o te Raki (external link) Kuīniwhenua (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Tonga (external link) Tāhimana (external link) Wikitōria (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Uru (external link) Arā tonu tētahi taupānga aru mō Ahitereiria whānui, engari he taupānga kē tō te nuinga o ia rohe o ia takiwā. Ka taea e koe te tāuta i te nuinga o ēnei taupānga me te kāri SIM o Aotearoa. Me whai pea koe i tētahi kāri SIM o Ahitereiria, i ngā taipitopito whakapā o Ahitereiria rānei, hei whakamahi i ētahi o ēnei taupānga. Ko tā mātou ki a koutou, me puri ēnei taupānga ki tō waea mō te 1 marama, mō te tūpono whiwhi whakatūpatotanga koe whai muri i tō wehenga atu i te rohe. Ki te kore e taea, e pīrangitia rānei te whakamahi i te taupānga, me whakamahi rawa e koe ngā taupānga a ngā pakihi ake me ngā toa ake, i mua i tō takiurutanga. Tāutangia ngā taupānga ā-rohe: Te Takiwā Matua o Ahitereiria (ACT) – Tirohia te taupānga CBR (external link) Niu Taute Wēra – taupānga Ratonga NSW (external link) Te Takiwā o te Raki – Te taupānga Takiuru o Te Takiwā (external link) Kuīniwhenua – Takiuru taupānga Qld (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Tonga – taupānga mySA GOV (external link) Tāhimana – Takiuru taupānga TAS (external link) Wikitōria - taupānga Ratonga Wikitōria (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Uru – taupānga SafeWA (external link) (me whai pea koe i te kāri SIM o Ahitereiria kia whiwhi kaute taupānga SafeWA) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka waea atu ki te rata mō ētahi āwhina. Waea atu ki te nama waea ā-Motu mō te rongoā ārai mate korona, KOWHEORI-19, ki te nama waea 1800 020 080 . Kāore he utu mō te waea atu i roto o Ahitereiria. Ka āhei ki te waea atu i ngā haora 24 o te rā, i ngā rā e 7 o te wiki. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Kūki Airani: me tatū rawa ngā ritenga manene me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki Ahitereiria rānei ki Kūki Airani rānei mō te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga atu – arā ka āhei koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā mēnā kāore koe i pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga. Mēnā kua pāngia kē koe, me mātua whiwhi tuhi whakaaetanga koe i tētahi kaimahi hauora, e kī ana kua makere katoa atu te mate i a koe mēnā kāore koe i te tiaki kia hoki mai tō whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. I a koe i Kūki Airani, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. He whakamārama anō kei te pae tukutuku a te Kāwanatanga o Kūki Airani (external link) He pūnaha rerekē tō Kūki Airani. Māu rawa e: rēhita ka kawe hoki i te Kāri QR o CookSafe hei takiuru ki ngā wāhi ka tae atu koe whakakāngia te kaiaru Bluetooth o te taupānga CookSafe+. Ka mahi tahi te taupānga CookSafe+ me te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Ko ngā waehere (ngā kī rānei) o Bluetooth ka tonoa mai, ka kohia rānei e te taupānga i tō waea mā tētahi o ngā taupānga nei, ka tuwhera anō ki tētahi atu. Ka mahi ngātahi ngā taupānga nei, ā, ka tangi te tūtei mēnā i pātata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga i pāngia nei e te KOWHEORI-19. Mō ētahi atu whakamārama mō te KĀRI QR o CookSafe (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i Kūki Airani, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka ūhia tō kanohi, mēnā he uhi kanohi tōu. Kaua e whakamahi i ngā waka tūmatanui. Waea atu ki te waea-hauora Healthline o Kūki Airani i te nama waea 29667 mō ētahi āwhina. --- Section Separator --- I tēnei wā, he ritenga Taratahi-Kore tō Aotearoa me ēnei motu: Ahitereiria Kūki Airani Niue (mai i Niue ki Aotearoa anake) Ko te tikanga o te Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te neke mai i tētahi motu ki tētahi me te kore noho taratahi inā ka tae atu koe. Kāore hoki he take o te whakamātautau i mua i tāu wehenga. Ka taea e te tangata te Haere Taratahi-Kore noa inā tatū ngā paearu ritenga, me ngā ritenga take manene o te motu e haere nā koe. I tēnei wā, ko ngā Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te haere i waenganui o Aotearoa me tētahi atu motu anake. Hei tauira, ka āhei koe ki te Haere Taratahi-Kore i waenganui o Kūki Airani me Aotearoa, engari me noho taratahi rawa koe mō te 14 rā i mua i te haerenga ki te whenua Taratahi-Kore o Ahitereiria. Māna kei te noho kape koe, me mau ārai kanohi, uhi kanohi rānei inā haere mai ana koe ki Aotearoa, inā wehe atu ana rānei. Me mau ārai kanohi hoki koe i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui katoa o Aotearoa. Ko ētahi anō tāngata kāore he take ki te mau ārai kanohi. Ki te panoni Te Pae Mataara ki Aotearoa, ki te rerekē rānei te āhuatanga ki tētahi motu Haere Taratahi-Kore, ka pāhongia e tēnei pae tukutuku ( covid19.govt.nz ), me ngā pae tukutuku rongo kōrero. Ki te puta anō te mate ki te hapori i Aotearoa nei, i tētahi motu Taratahi-Kore rānei, tērā ka whakatūria e te Kāwanatanga te haere taratahi-kore hei aromātai i te tūraru, tērā rānei hīkina ngā haerenga mō tētahi wā roa ake. Me whai mahere te hunga haere, me rite hoki mō te tūpono raru rānei i ōu haerenga. Tirohia mai ngā whakamārama hou rawa mō Te Haere Taratahi-Kore E āhei ai koe ki te haere taratahi-kore ki Aotearoa: me tatū rawa ngā ritenga manene katoa me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki te motu rānei e haere nā koe mō te 14 rā. Hei tauira, mēnā e wehe ana koe i Ahitereiria, me mātua noho koe ki Ahitereiria, ki Aotearoa rānei mō te 14 rā e wātea ai ki te haere taratahi-kore. Ka wātea koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā mēnā kāore koe i raru i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga. Mēnā kua pāngia kē koe, me mātua whiwhi tuhi whakaaetanga koe i tētahi kaimahi hauora, e kī ana kua makere katoa atu te mate i a koe mēnā kāore koe i te tiaki kia hoki mai he whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 me whakakī rawa he tauākī haerenga (external link) – mēnā kāore e whakakīa kāore koe e whakaaetia kia kake i te waka rererangi me whakautu rawa he pātai e pā ana ki tō hauora hei te wehenga atu. Mēnā he mate tōu e taunaki ana i ōu tohumate, me kawe mai e koe tētahi tiwhikete hauora kia kore ai koe e aukatia ki te kake i te waka rererangi. Tāutangia, whakamahia hoki te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Kāore he raru nō Aotearoa rānei tō waea pūkoro, tō kaute Āporo, tō kaute Kūkara rānei, mō te tāuta i te Kaiaru KOWHEORI. Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā kei a koe ngā tohumate o te hūwiniwini, o te rewharewha o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki: te waea-hauora Healthline i te nama kore-utu 0800 358 5453 tō rata, rānei tō kaiwhakarato hauora ā-iwi rānei. Mā te mātanga hauora e tohu atu mēnā me whakamātautau koe. Tēnā waea atu ki tō rata i mua i tō haerenga atu mēnā he tohumate ōu. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Ahitereiria: me tatū ngā ritenga manene me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki Ahitereiria rānei mō te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga – arā ka āhei koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā. me whakakī rawa he tauākī haere kia 72 hāora rawa i mua i te wehenga atu i Aotearoa ( https://covid19.homeaffairs.gov.au/australia-traveldeclaration (external link) ) mēnā kāore ōu tohumate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā kāore koe i pāngia e tētahi tangata mate KOWHEORI-19 me tiro rawa kei te whakaae te rohe te takiwā rānei e haere ana koe, ki ngā rererangi Taratahi-Kore. I a koe i Ahitereiria, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. Mō ngā whakamārama mõ te KOWHEORI-19, mō ngā wāhi aronui, mō ngā tūāhua haerenga (tae atu ki ngā haerenga o te motu) me ngā whakamātautau, haere koa ki te pae tukutuku o te rohe kei reira koe. E whai ake nei ko ngā pārongo KOWHEORI-19 mō ia rohe, mō ia takiwā rānei: Te Takiwā Matua o Ahitereiria (external link) Niu Taute Wēra (external link) Te Takiwā o te Raki (external link) Kuīniwhenua (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Tonga (external link) Tāhimana (external link) Wikitōria (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Uru (external link) Arā tonu tētahi taupānga aru mō Ahitereiria whānui, engari he taupānga kē tō te nuinga o ia rohe o ia takiwā. Ka taea e koe te tāuta i te nuinga o ēnei taupānga me te kāri SIM o Aotearoa. Me whai pea koe i tētahi kāri SIM o Ahitereiria, i ngā taipitopito whakapā o Ahitereiria rānei, hei whakamahi i ētahi o ēnei taupānga. Ko tā mātou ki a koutou, me puri ēnei taupānga ki tō waea mō te 1 marama, mō te tūpono whiwhi whakatūpatotanga koe whai muri i tō wehenga atu i te rohe. Ki te kore e taea, e pīrangitia rānei te whakamahi i te taupānga, me whakamahi rawa e koe ngā taupānga a ngā pakihi ake me ngā toa ake, i mua i tō takiurutanga. Tāutangia ngā taupānga ā-rohe: Te Takiwā Matua o Ahitereiria (ACT) – Tirohia te taupānga CBR (external link) Niu Taute Wēra – taupānga Ratonga NSW (external link) Te Takiwā o te Raki – Te taupānga Takiuru o Te Takiwā (external link) Kuīniwhenua – Takiuru taupānga Qld (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Tonga – taupānga mySA GOV (external link) Tāhimana – Takiuru taupānga TAS (external link) Wikitōria - taupānga Ratonga Wikitōria (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Uru – taupānga SafeWA (external link) (me whai pea koe i te kāri SIM o Ahitereiria kia whiwhi kaute taupānga SafeWA) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka waea atu ki te rata mō ētahi āwhina. Waea atu ki te nama waea ā-Motu mō te rongoā ārai mate korona, KOWHEORI-19, ki te nama waea 1800 020 080 . Kāore he utu mō te waea atu i roto o Ahitereiria. Ka āhei ki te waea atu i ngā haora 24 o te rā, i ngā rā e 7 o te wiki. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Kūki Airani: me tatū rawa ngā ritenga manene me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki Ahitereiria rānei ki Kūki Airani rānei mō te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga atu – arā ka āhei koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā mēnā kāore koe i pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga. Mēnā kua pāngia kē koe, me mātua whiwhi tuhi whakaaetanga koe i tētahi kaimahi hauora, e kī ana kua makere katoa atu te mate i a koe mēnā kāore koe i te tiaki kia hoki mai tō whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. I a koe i Kūki Airani, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. He whakamārama anō kei te pae tukutuku a te Kāwanatanga o Kūki Airani (external link) He pūnaha rerekē tō Kūki Airani. Māu rawa e: rēhita ka kawe hoki i te Kāri QR o CookSafe hei takiuru ki ngā wāhi ka tae atu koe whakakāngia te kaiaru Bluetooth o te taupānga CookSafe+. Ka mahi tahi te taupānga CookSafe+ me te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Ko ngā waehere (ngā kī rānei) o Bluetooth ka tonoa mai, ka kohia rānei e te taupānga i tō waea mā tētahi o ngā taupānga nei, ka tuwhera anō ki tētahi atu. Ka mahi ngātahi ngā taupānga nei, ā, ka tangi te tūtei mēnā i pātata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga i pāngia nei e te KOWHEORI-19. Mō ētahi atu whakamārama mō te KĀRI QR o CookSafe (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i Kūki Airani, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka ūhia tō kanohi, mēnā he uhi kanohi tōu. Kaua e whakamahi i ngā waka tūmatanui. Waea atu ki te waea-hauora Healthline o Kūki Airani i te nama waea 29667 mō ētahi āwhina. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Kua whakaritea e Te Hiranga Tangata he Tauwaea Whakaara ( 0800 559 009 ) hei manaaki i ngā hapori kua raru nei. Tērā ētahi āwhinatanga kaipakihi a Te Hiranga Tangata hei torotoro. Mēnā kua kīia kia noho whakamohoao ō kaimahi, ā, kāore hoki e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ka taea e koe te tono pūtea hei utu tonu i a rātou. He pārongo mō tētahi Pūtea Āwhina hou hei āwhina i ngā kaipakihi kua heke nei ā rātou moni whiwhi i runga i te huringa o ngā Pae Mataara Mate Korona. Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto – E wātea ana te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto Mate Korona ki ngā kaipakihi, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, hei āwhina ki te utu i ō rātou kaimahi kāore nei e taea te mahi i te kāinga i a rātou e tatari ana kia whakahokia mai ō rātou whakamātaunga Mate Korona. Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā – E whai wāhi ana ki te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā ko ngā kaimahi e rite ana, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, kāore e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ā, kua pāngia nei e te momo māuiui, hei tauira, kua pāngia e te Mate Korona, kua kīia ai rānei he ‘hoa tata’, ā, me noho whakamohoao ki te kāinga mō ngā rā 14. Pūtea Whakaara – He mea āwhina te Pūtea Whakaara a Te Tari Tāke i ngā kaipakihi kua raru nei i te nui haere o ngā putanga Pae Mataara. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Āwhina, te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto, me te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Tari Tāke (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Whakaara. He āwhinatanga kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata, whakapā atu ki te pokapū i 0800 559 009 me MyMSD E puare ana ngā pokapū o Te Hiranga Tangata i ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2, e katia ana i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4. Ka whakahaeretia ā-waeahia ngā whakaritenga i raro i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4, i ngā wā e rite ana. Ka rite tonu ngā whakaritenga mō ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2. Ka utua tonutia ngā utu e rite ana e Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka whakamāramatia ngā utu e wātea ana i te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) . Kei te wātea hoki ēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. --- Section Separator --- Kua whakaritea e Te Hiranga Tangata he Tauwaea Whakaara ( 0800 559 009 ) hei manaaki i ngā hapori kua raru nei. Tērā ētahi āwhinatanga kaipakihi a Te Hiranga Tangata hei torotoro. Mēnā kua kīia kia noho whakamohoao ō kaimahi, ā, kāore hoki e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ka taea e koe te tono pūtea hei utu tonu i a rātou. He pārongo mō tētahi Pūtea Āwhina hou hei āwhina i ngā kaipakihi kua heke nei ā rātou moni whiwhi i runga i te huringa o ngā Pae Mataara Mate Korona. Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto – E wātea ana te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto Mate Korona ki ngā kaipakihi, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, hei āwhina ki te utu i ō rātou kaimahi kāore nei e taea te mahi i te kāinga i a rātou e tatari ana kia whakahokia mai ō rātou whakamātaunga Mate Korona. Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā – E whai wāhi ana ki te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā ko ngā kaimahi e rite ana, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, kāore e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ā, kua pāngia nei e te momo māuiui, hei tauira, kua pāngia e te Mate Korona, kua kīia ai rānei he ‘hoa tata’, ā, me noho whakamohoao ki te kāinga mō ngā rā 14. Pūtea Whakaara – He mea āwhina te Pūtea Whakaara a Te Tari Tāke i ngā kaipakihi kua raru nei i te nui haere o ngā putanga Pae Mataara. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Āwhina, te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto, me te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Tari Tāke (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Whakaara. He āwhinatanga kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata, whakapā atu ki te pokapū i 0800 559 009 me MyMSD E puare ana ngā pokapū o Te Hiranga Tangata i ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2, e katia ana i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4. Ka whakahaeretia ā-waeahia ngā whakaritenga i raro i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4, i ngā wā e rite ana. Ka rite tonu ngā whakaritenga mō ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2. Ka utua tonutia ngā utu e rite ana e Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka whakamāramatia ngā utu e wātea ana i te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) . Kei te wātea hoki ēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko ā-pūtea KOWHEORI-19 ki te kimi he aha te āwhinatanga ā-pūtea e wātea ana ki a koe. Kei te wātea anake tēnei utauta i te reo Ingarihi. Ka uia ki a koe ētahi pātai kia mōhio ai ki ō āhuatanga whaiaro: tō tūnga mahi, hei tauira te korenga o tō tūranga mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 tō āhuatanga, hei tauira, kāore e taea e tō pakihi te whakahaere mahi mēnā kua whakaitia e tō wāhi mahi te mahi me te hua moni. Hei reira ka whakaatu te utauta ki a koe he aha ngā āwhinatanga, tautoko ā-pūtea hoki ka āheitia e koe, ā, ki hea koe tono ai, rapu ai i ētahi atu mōhiohio. Whakamahia te utauta tautoko ā-pūtea KOWHEORI-19 Mēnā i whakakorehia tō tūranga mahi, i whakahekea rānei ō hāora mahi, tērā pea ka taea e koe tētahi penihana, tētahi atu āwhinatanga ā-pūtea mai i Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka taea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina ki ngā utu kōhukihuki pērā i: te kai utu nohonga, hei tauira te rēti, mōkete rānei, utu noho, whare ohorere, te neke ki tētahi whare hōu te whakatika, whakahōu rānei i ngā pūrere te maimoatanga niho ohotata te maimoatanga hauora ohotata te whakakī anō i te taika wai Tautoko ā-pūtea, paearu māraurau, me pēhea te tono i te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea hoki e koe te waea ki Te Hiranga Tangata i 0800 559 009 (external link) . Mēnā kei te māharahara koe mō tō āhei ki te utu i ngā pūtea tārewa nā te KOWHEORI-19, me whakapā wawe atu koe ki tō pēke, pakihi tuku pūtea rānei. Ka mahi ngā pēke me ētahi atu kaituku moni ki ngā kiritaki e taumahatia ana ā-pūtea. He mana ā-ture tō ngā kaimino ki te tono i ētahi panonitanga ki ā rātou utunga. Tērā ētahi kōwhiringa e wātea ana hei āwhina i a koe i tēnei wā taumaha. Ka taea e ngā ratonga e tautokotia ana e te kāwanatanga a Sorted me MoneyTalks te āwhina ki te whakarite mahere pūtea, ētahi atu kupu tohutohu ā-pūtea rānei. Mā Sorted koe e āwhina ki ngā tohuāki, ngā aratohu me ngā utauta tautoko ā-tuihono, ka taea rānei e koe te īmērā ki office@sorted.org.nz Pānuitia ētahi atu mōhiohio i te paetukutuku Sorted (external link) Ka taea hoki e koe te kōrero ki ngā kaiāwhina pūtea i MoneyTalks. Waea ki 0800 345 123 (external link) Tuku pātuhi ki 4029 (external link) Īmēra ki help@moneytalks.co.nz Pānuitia ētahi atu kōrero i te paetukutuku a MoneyTalks (external link) Mēnā he kōkota rangitahi tāu, ā, kāore e taea te tautoko i a koe anō, te hoki rānei ki te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei pea koe ki te whiwhi Penihana Ohorere. Ko te Penihana Ohorere he utunga ā-wiki hei āwhina i a koe ki ngā utu noho taketake i te wā e whakaritea ana kia hoki wawe koe ki te kāinga. Ka āhei pea koe ki te whiwhi i te Penihana Ohorere mēnā: he kōkota rangitahi nō Aotearoa kāore anō kia tautokona, hei tauira he kōkota manuhiri, ākonga, mahi rānei e tino pōhara ana, ā, kāore he huarahi tautoko kē ātu - kāore te moni hei hoko rerenga ki te kāinga e kīia ana he tautokotanga tērā rānei: e whakaritea ana kia hoki wawe ai koe ki te kāinga, te hoki rānei ki te kāinga, kāore e taea te hoki ki te kāinga nā ngā rāhuitanga hāereere KOWHEORI-19 engari ka hoki i te wā ka wātea mai he rerenga e whakaritea ana kia hoki wawe ai koe ki te kāinga, te hoki rānei ki te kāinga, kāore e taea te hoki ki te kāinga nā ngā rāhuitanga hāereere KOWHEORI-19 engari ka hoki i te wā ka wātea mai he rerenga kei te whai i ngā hātepe tika katoa ki te kimi i ētahi atu huarahi tautoko, tae atu ki te kimi mahi; āwhinatanga mai i te whare māngai o tō whenua; tautoko rānei mai i te whānau, ngā hoa me ngā rōpū whakahaere i Aotearoa, i rāwāhi rānei he uruwhenua whaimana tāu he pūkete pēke o Aotearoa tāu he tau Tari Tāke (IRD) tāu. Ka taea te tono mō te Penihana Ohotata tae noa ki te 31 o Hereturikōkā 2021. Rapu mēnā ka taea e koe te Penihana Ohotata, ā, me pēhea te tono (external link) Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: Me noho tūhono tonu ki ngā hoa me te whānau - he mea nui tēnei mō tō tātou oranga, ā, he āwhina kia noho haumaru ake, kia iti iho te pōkaikaha, me te iti iho te anipā. Me whāki i ō kare ā-roto - he rongo māori noa te rongo i te wairua haukerekere, pōkaikaha, anipā, māharahara, mataku rānei. Whakawāteatia he wā e aro ai koe, e whakaputa ai koe i ō kare ā-roto. Me whai tonu i ngā hātepe mēnā ka taea - me ngana ki te hanga i ngā whakaritenga auau i tō tauoranga, ā, kaua e whakapiki i ngā ritenga hauora-kore pēnei i te kai hāneanea, te inu, te kai paipa me te rehutupeka. Tirohia ētahi atu tāngata e hiahia āwhina ana pea - mā te toro atu o te ringa ki te hunga e pōkaikahatia ana pea, e māharahara ana rānei ka āwhina pea i a kōrua tahi. Whakawhāitihia tō wā tuihono - kiakotahi, kia rua rānei ō tirohanga ki ngā arapāho me ngā pae pāpori i te rā. E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro He pai noa iho te tono āwhina mēnā kei te mōrearea koe, tētahi atu rānei. Ki te whakaaro koe ka tūkinotia pea tētahi tangata, ka tūkino rānei i a rātau anō, waea atu ki nga pirihimana, ahakoa kāore koe i te tino mōhio. Kia mataara tonu mō te haumarutanga me te oranga o ngā tamariki me ngā pākeke. Kōrero ki ō hoa, whānau me ngā hoa nohotata mēnā e hiahia tautoko ana koe, ki te kite rānei mehemea ka hiahia āwhina rātou. Whakamahia ngā pae pāpori hei noho tūhonohono tonu me te tiro kei te pēhea koutou. Mēnā he pārurenga koe o te whakarekereke ā-whānau, ā-ai, māna he tangata rānei e whakawehi ana i a koe, e whakatumatuma ana i a koe, e whakatīwheta ana i a koe, me wawe te rapu āwhina. Kei a koe te mana kia noho haumaru. Rapua tētahi waea āwhina whakarekereke ā-whānau, ā-ai hoki He maha ētahi atu ratonga tautoko me ngā ratonga taunaki hei āwhina i a koe. Mā Te Hiranga Tangata koe e āwhina ā-pūtea mēnā he iti ō pūtea, kāore rānei i te mahi, ka tautoko i a koe ki te rapu mahi me te āwhina ki te rapu wāhi noho. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Me pēhea te whakapā atu ki tētahi i Te Hiringa Tangata (external link) Waea ki: 0800 559 009 (external link) Ko Immigration Aotearoa e tiaki ana i ngā ture manene o Aotearoa, otirā e tautoko ana hoki i tō tātou tipunga ōhanga me te whakapakari i tō tātou hononga ki ētahi atu wāhi o te ao. Ka taea e rātau te āwhina ki te whakautu pātai mō ngā kōkota. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Immigration New Zealand (external link) Me pēhea te whakapā atu ki tētahi i te Immigration New Zealand (external link) Waea: 0508 558 855 (external link) Ka taea e Ngā Pou Whakawhirinaki o Aotearoa te āwhina i a koe kia mārama ki ō motika me ō takohanga, me te tuku tautoko e matea ana ki te whakatutuki i ētahi mahi. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Ngā Pou Whakawhirinaki o Aotearoa (external link) Me pēhea te whakapā atu ki tētahi i Ngā Pou Whakawhirinaki o Aotearoa (external link) Waea: 0800 367 222 (external link) Mā Employment NZ koe e āwhina mēnā he pātai āu mō tō tūranga mahi. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Employment NZ (external link) Me pēhea te whakapā atu ki tētahi i Employment NZ (external link) Waea: 0800 20 90 20 (external link) Kei te tātai ratonga Whānau ngā mōhiohio mō ngā rōpū tautoko whānau me ngā ratonga me ngā hōtaka e whakaratoa ana e rātou hei tautoko i ngā whānau i Aotearoa. Haere ki te paetukutuku tātai ratonga Whānau (external link) Īmēra: updates@familyservices.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko ā-pūtea KOWHEORI-19 ki te kimi he aha te āwhinatanga ā-pūtea e wātea ana ki a koe. Kei te wātea anake tēnei utauta i te reo Ingarihi. Ka uia ki a koe ētahi pātai kia mōhio ai ki ō āhuatanga whaiaro: tō tūnga mahi, hei tauira te korenga o tō tūranga mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 tō āhuatanga, hei tauira, kāore e taea e tō pakihi te whakahaere mahi mēnā kua whakaitia e tō wāhi mahi te mahi me te hua moni. Hei reira ka whakaatu te utauta ki a koe he aha ngā āwhinatanga, tautoko ā-pūtea hoki ka āheitia e koe, ā, ki hea koe tono ai, rapu ai i ētahi atu mōhiohio. Whakamahia te utauta tautoko ā-pūtea KOWHEORI-19 Mēnā i whakakorehia tō tūranga mahi, i whakahekea rānei ō hāora mahi, tērā pea ka taea e koe tētahi penihana, tētahi atu āwhinatanga ā-pūtea mai i Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka taea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina ki ngā utu kōhukihuki pērā i: te kai utu nohonga, hei tauira te rēti, mōkete rānei, utu noho, whare ohorere, te neke ki tētahi whare hōu te whakatika, whakahōu rānei i ngā pūrere te maimoatanga niho ohotata te maimoatanga hauora ohotata te whakakī anō i te taika wai Tautoko ā-pūtea, paearu māraurau, me pēhea te tono i te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea hoki e koe te waea ki Te Hiranga Tangata i 0800 559 009 (external link) . Mēnā kei te māharahara koe mō tō āhei ki te utu i ngā pūtea tārewa nā te KOWHEORI-19, me whakapā wawe atu koe ki tō pēke, pakihi tuku pūtea rānei. Ka mahi ngā pēke me ētahi atu kaituku moni ki ngā kiritaki e taumahatia ana ā-pūtea. He mana ā-ture tō ngā kaimino ki te tono i ētahi panonitanga ki ā rātou utunga. Tērā ētahi kōwhiringa e wātea ana hei āwhina i a koe i tēnei wā taumaha. Ka taea e ngā ratonga e tautokotia ana e te kāwanatanga a Sorted me MoneyTalks te āwhina ki te whakarite mahere pūtea, ētahi atu kupu tohutohu ā-pūtea rānei. Mā Sorted koe e āwhina ki ngā tohuāki, ngā aratohu me ngā utauta tautoko ā-tuihono, ka taea rānei e koe te īmērā ki office@sorted.org.nz Pānuitia ētahi atu mōhiohio i te paetukutuku Sorted (external link) Ka taea hoki e koe te kōrero ki ngā kaiāwhina pūtea i MoneyTalks. Waea ki 0800 345 123 (external link) Tuku pātuhi ki 4029 (external link) Īmēra ki help@moneytalks.co.nz Pānuitia ētahi atu kōrero i te paetukutuku a MoneyTalks (external link) Mēnā he kōkota rangitahi tāu, ā, kāore e taea te tautoko i a koe anō, te hoki rānei ki te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei pea koe ki te whiwhi Penihana Ohorere. Ko te Penihana Ohorere he utunga ā-wiki hei āwhina i a koe ki ngā utu noho taketake i te wā e whakaritea ana kia hoki wawe koe ki te kāinga. Ka āhei pea koe ki te whiwhi i te Penihana Ohorere mēnā: he kōkota rangitahi nō Aotearoa kāore anō kia tautokona, hei tauira he kōkota manuhiri, ākonga, mahi rānei e tino pōhara ana, ā, kāore he huarahi tautoko kē ātu - kāore te moni hei hoko rerenga ki te kāinga e kīia ana he tautokotanga tērā rānei: e whakaritea ana kia hoki wawe ai koe ki te kāinga, te hoki rānei ki te kāinga, kāore e taea te hoki ki te kāinga nā ngā rāhuitanga hāereere KOWHEORI-19 engari ka hoki i te wā ka wātea mai he rerenga e whakaritea ana kia hoki wawe ai koe ki te kāinga, te hoki rānei ki te kāinga, kāore e taea te hoki ki te kāinga nā ngā rāhuitanga hāereere KOWHEORI-19 engari ka hoki i te wā ka wātea mai he rerenga kei te whai i ngā hātepe tika katoa ki te kimi i ētahi atu huarahi tautoko, tae atu ki te kimi mahi; āwhinatanga mai i te whare māngai o tō whenua; tautoko rānei mai i te whānau, ngā hoa me ngā rōpū whakahaere i Aotearoa, i rāwāhi rānei he uruwhenua whaimana tāu he pūkete pēke o Aotearoa tāu he tau Tari Tāke (IRD) tāu. Ka taea te tono mō te Penihana Ohotata tae noa ki te 31 o Hereturikōkā 2021. Rapu mēnā ka taea e koe te Penihana Ohotata, ā, me pēhea te tono (external link) Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: Me noho tūhono tonu ki ngā hoa me te whānau - he mea nui tēnei mō tō tātou oranga, ā, he āwhina kia noho haumaru ake, kia iti iho te pōkaikaha, me te iti iho te anipā. Me whāki i ō kare ā-roto - he rongo māori noa te rongo i te wairua haukerekere, pōkaikaha, anipā, māharahara, mataku rānei. Whakawāteatia he wā e aro ai koe, e whakaputa ai koe i ō kare ā-roto. Me whai tonu i ngā hātepe mēnā ka taea - me ngana ki te hanga i ngā whakaritenga auau i tō tauoranga, ā, kaua e whakapiki i ngā ritenga hauora-kore pēnei i te kai hāneanea, te inu, te kai paipa me te rehutupeka. Tirohia ētahi atu tāngata e hiahia āwhina ana pea - mā te toro atu o te ringa ki te hunga e pōkaikahatia ana pea, e māharahara ana rānei ka āwhina pea i a kōrua tahi. Whakawhāitihia tō wā tuihono - kiakotahi, kia rua rānei ō tirohanga ki ngā arapāho me ngā pae pāpori i te rā. E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro He pai noa iho te tono āwhina mēnā kei te mōrearea koe, tētahi atu rānei. Ki te whakaaro koe ka tūkinotia pea tētahi tangata, ka tūkino rānei i a rātau anō, waea atu ki nga pirihimana, ahakoa kāore koe i te tino mōhio. Kia mataara tonu mō te haumarutanga me te oranga o ngā tamariki me ngā pākeke. Kōrero ki ō hoa, whānau me ngā hoa nohotata mēnā e hiahia tautoko ana koe, ki te kite rānei mehemea ka hiahia āwhina rātou. Whakamahia ngā pae pāpori hei noho tūhonohono tonu me te tiro kei te pēhea koutou. Mēnā he pārurenga koe o te whakarekereke ā-whānau, ā-ai, māna he tangata rānei e whakawehi ana i a koe, e whakatumatuma ana i a koe, e whakatīwheta ana i a koe, me wawe te rapu āwhina. Kei a koe te mana kia noho haumaru. Rapua tētahi waea āwhina whakarekereke ā-whānau, ā-ai hoki He maha ētahi atu ratonga tautoko me ngā ratonga taunaki hei āwhina i a koe. Mā Te Hiranga Tangata koe e āwhina ā-pūtea mēnā he iti ō pūtea, kāore rānei i te mahi, ka tautoko i a koe ki te rapu mahi me te āwhina ki te rapu wāhi noho. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Me pēhea te whakapā atu ki tētahi i Te Hiringa Tangata (external link) Waea ki: 0800 559 009 (external link) Ko Immigration Aotearoa e tiaki ana i ngā ture manene o Aotearoa, otirā e tautoko ana hoki i tō tātou tipunga ōhanga me te whakapakari i tō tātou hononga ki ētahi atu wāhi o te ao. Ka taea e rātau te āwhina ki te whakautu pātai mō ngā kōkota. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Immigration New Zealand (external link) Me pēhea te whakapā atu ki tētahi i te Immigration New Zealand (external link) Waea: 0508 558 855 (external link) Ka taea e Ngā Pou Whakawhirinaki o Aotearoa te āwhina i a koe kia mārama ki ō motika me ō takohanga, me te tuku tautoko e matea ana ki te whakatutuki i ētahi mahi. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Ngā Pou Whakawhirinaki o Aotearoa (external link) Me pēhea te whakapā atu ki tētahi i Ngā Pou Whakawhirinaki o Aotearoa (external link) Waea: 0800 367 222 (external link) Mā Employment NZ koe e āwhina mēnā he pātai āu mō tō tūranga mahi. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Employment NZ (external link) Me pēhea te whakapā atu ki tētahi i Employment NZ (external link) Waea: 0800 20 90 20 (external link) Kei te tātai ratonga Whānau ngā mōhiohio mō ngā rōpū tautoko whānau me ngā ratonga me ngā hōtaka e whakaratoa ana e rātou hei tautoko i ngā whānau i Aotearoa. Haere ki te paetukutuku tātai ratonga Whānau (external link) Īmēra: updates@familyservices.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau | Testing --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: kua hoki mai koe i tāwāhi i nā tata nei kua pā atu koe ki tētahi kua hoki mai i tāwāhi i nā tata nei he whakapānga tata koe nō tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: kua hoki mai koe i tāwāhi i nā tata nei kua pā atu koe ki tētahi kua hoki mai i tāwāhi i nā tata nei he whakapānga tata koe nō tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate | After your immunisation --- Section Separator --- Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Koinei tā te tinana urupare māori atu, ā, he tohu tēnei kei te whaihua te kano ārai mate. I te nuinga o te wā, he māmā noa iho te pānga, ka mutu kāore e roa taua pānga, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. He wā ōna ka puta he pāwera tino kino engari me uaua ka pērā. Kua whakangungua ngā kaiwero o Aotearoa ki te whakahaere i ērā āhuatanga. Ko ētahi mate āpiti ka pā pea ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ki te tūpono puta tēnei tūāhuatanga, tēnā kōrerohia atu ki tō kaituku mahi. Mēnā ka rongo koe i ētahi tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i tētahi maremare e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka whai ai i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka tūpono puta tētahi tauhohenga ki tō werohanga mō KOWHEORI-19, me whāki atu e tō kaiwero, e tō mātanga hauora rānei ki te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). E pai ana hoki tō whāki tōtika atu i ngā tauhohenga ka tūpono pā mā te tuku īmēra ki a CARM, mā te whakakī rānei i tā rātou puka whāki ā-ipurangi kei te pae tukutuku a CARM, kei otago.ac.nz/carm (external link) . Mēnā ka matawaenga koe e pā ana ki ō tohumate, mēnā rānei ka kino ake, kōrero ki tō tākuta, waea atu rānei ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ā, kī atu ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 e tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate | After your immunisation [PDF, 84 KB] --- Section Separator --- Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Koinei tā te tinana urupare māori atu, ā, he tohu tēnei kei te whaihua te kano ārai mate. I te nuinga o te wā, he māmā noa iho te pānga, ka mutu kāore e roa taua pānga, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. He wā ōna ka puta he pāwera tino kino engari me uaua ka pērā. Kua whakangungua ngā kaiwero o Aotearoa ki te whakahaere i ērā āhuatanga. Ko ētahi mate āpiti ka pā pea ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ki te tūpono puta tēnei tūāhuatanga, tēnā kōrerohia atu ki tō kaituku mahi. Mēnā ka rongo koe i ētahi tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i tētahi maremare e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka whai ai i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka tūpono puta tētahi tauhohenga ki tō werohanga mō KOWHEORI-19, me whāki atu e tō kaiwero, e tō mātanga hauora rānei ki te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). E pai ana hoki tō whāki tōtika atu i ngā tauhohenga ka tūpono pā mā te tuku īmēra ki a CARM, mā te whakakī rānei i tā rātou puka whāki ā-ipurangi kei te pae tukutuku a CARM, kei otago.ac.nz/carm (external link) . Mēnā ka matawaenga koe e pā ana ki ō tohumate, mēnā rānei ka kino ake, kōrero ki tō tākuta, waea atu rānei ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ā, kī atu ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 e tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. --- Section Separator --- Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate | After your immunisation [PDF, 84 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Religious communities Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te tono mō te werohanga wawe KOWHEORI-19 | Applying for an early vaccination --- Section Separator --- Rapu me aha koe ina hiahia tono koe mō tētahi werohanga wawe kia pai ai te haere ki tāwāhi i runga i ngā take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei. Kāore e taea e koe te tono mō te werohanga wawe mō ētahi atu take. Rapu āhea taea ai e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Ka taea e koe te tono mō te werohanga wawe i runga i ngā take ngākau aroha mēnā ka hiahia koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi ki: te whakauru atu ki te tiakanga hauora nui kāore e wātea ana i Aotearoa, mōu, mō tētahi uri rānei (hei tauira, tō tamaiti) te toro atu ki tētahi mema o te whānau kua tata mate te whakarato i te tiakanga nui me te āraitanga mō tētahi uri. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tāwāhi i mua i te 31 o Hereturikōkā, ka taea e koe te tono tuihono mō tētahi kano ārai mate wawe mā te paetukutuku Manatū Hauora. Ākene pea ka māraurau koe mō tētahi kano ārai mate wawe mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi ki: te ārai i te haumarutanga o te motika o Aotearoa ki te tū hei kāwanatanga mōna anō te uru atu ki ngā mahi atawhai tangata kua whakaaetia e te Kāwanatanga hei wāhanga o ngā pūmautanga o Aotearoa ki te tuku āwhinatanga take tāwāhi, ngā urupare aitūa ā-ao, te tautoko rānei i ngā iwi o Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa ki te whakaora mai i te urutā KOWHEORI-19 te uru atu ki ngā taiopenga nui o te ao, e matea ai te hāereere hei kanoni mō Aotearoa te uru atu ki ngā whiriwhiri kōrero tauhokohoko nui ā-motu. Me tono rawa te tari hāngai, rōpū rānei mōu. Nga tono mō te kano ārai mate wawe (external link) --- Section Separator --- Rapu me aha koe ina hiahia tono koe mō tētahi werohanga wawe kia pai ai te haere ki tāwāhi i runga i ngā take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei. Kāore e taea e koe te tono mō te werohanga wawe mō ētahi atu take. Rapu āhea taea ai e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Ka taea e koe te tono mō te werohanga wawe i runga i ngā take ngākau aroha mēnā ka hiahia koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi ki: te whakauru atu ki te tiakanga hauora nui kāore e wātea ana i Aotearoa, mōu, mō tētahi uri rānei (hei tauira, tō tamaiti) te toro atu ki tētahi mema o te whānau kua tata mate te whakarato i te tiakanga nui me te āraitanga mō tētahi uri. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tāwāhi i mua i te 31 o Hereturikōkā, ka taea e koe te tono tuihono mō tētahi kano ārai mate wawe mā te paetukutuku Manatū Hauora. Ākene pea ka māraurau koe mō tētahi kano ārai mate wawe mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi ki: te ārai i te haumarutanga o te motika o Aotearoa ki te tū hei kāwanatanga mōna anō te uru atu ki ngā mahi atawhai tangata kua whakaaetia e te Kāwanatanga hei wāhanga o ngā pūmautanga o Aotearoa ki te tuku āwhinatanga take tāwāhi, ngā urupare aitūa ā-ao, te tautoko rānei i ngā iwi o Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa ki te whakaora mai i te urutā KOWHEORI-19 te uru atu ki ngā taiopenga nui o te ao, e matea ai te hāereere hei kanoni mō Aotearoa te uru atu ki ngā whiriwhiri kōrero tauhokohoko nui ā-motu. Me tono rawa te tari hāngai, rōpū rānei mōu. Nga tono mō te kano ārai mate wawe (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Religious communities Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect --- Section Separator --- Ko ngā kano ārai mate tētahi huarahi e ārai ai tātou i te mate urutā o KOWHEORI-19, hei tiaki hoki i te oranga o ō tātou hapori. Kāore he utu o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka tiaki ngā kano ārai mate i tō hauora, ā, ka ārai atu i te mate mā te mahi tahi me ngā wāhanga papare o tō tinana e kaha ai koe ki te ārai atu i te wheori, mehemea ka noho mōrearea koe. Ka whaihua te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mā te whakaoho i tō pūnaha awhikiri e hua mai ai ngā paturopi, ngā pūtau toto hoki e whai nei ki te ārai i te wheori o KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 tētahi mahi hei whāinga māu e ārai ai koe i a koe anō i ngā pānga o te wheori. Heoi anō, kāore mātou i te mōhio mēnā ka riro mā tēnei e mutu ai tō pāngia rānei e te wheori, tō whakapā atu rānei i te wheori ki tangata kē. Kia uru ki a koe te kano ārai mate, me tūpato tonu hei aukati wawe i te horapa haeretanga o KOWHEORI-19. Me āta horoi, me āta whakamaroke hoki ō ringaringa. Me maremare, me matihe hoki ki tō tuke, ā, me noho ki te kāinga mehemea ka māuiui koe. Mā tēnei koe e āwhina ki te tiaki i a koe anō, i tō whānau, i ētahi atu hoki. Me whakamahi tonu i te taupānga whakatewhatewha mō KOWHEORI, whakakāngia te wāhanga o te Hono Iarere o tō waea, ā, tērā pea ka hiahia koe ki te mau i tō tākai mata, i tō ārai mata rānei. Whakaae noa ai a Medsafe kia whakamahia te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa i te wā e whakaae ana rātou kua eke ki te taumata o te haumaru, o te whaihua hoki e tika ana kia whakamahia. Kotahi tonu te whakamātautau haumaru me whai e ngā kano ārai mate katoa e pā ana ki a KOWHEORI- 19, ka mutu me eke te katoa ki ōna paerewa ruarangi e ōrite ana. Kāore koe e pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 mā tēnei kano ārai mate. Me rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga, kia āhua toru wiki te roa i waenga i ngā mea e rua. E eke ai te tiakanga ōu ki te taumata, me whai koe kia rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga ōu ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore koe e tae atu i te wā kua whakaritea, me wawe tonu tō whakarite i tētahi atu wā. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te pāwera kino rawa atu, mēnā rānei i tere tonu te pāngia ōu e te pāwera nā te kano ārai mate, nā te werohanga rānei i mua, tēnā kōrerotia tēnei ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki te rongoā whakawaiwai toto, mēnā rānei e pāngia ana koe e te mate ā-toto, whakamōhiotia te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e hapū ana koe, e whāngai pēpē ana rānei koe ki te ū, tēnā kōrero atu ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate, ki tō tākuta rānei, ki tō tapuhi whakawhānau rānei. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki ngā rongoā mō te mate pukupuku, arā, ki a Keytruda rānei, ki a Opdivo rānei, ki a Yervoy rānei, ki a Tecentriq rānei, kōrero ki tō mātanga e mōhio ai koe mēnā me whāngai koe ki te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā, kāore mātou i te whakawātea i te kano ārai mate a Pfizer ki te hunga e tamariki ake ana i te 16 tau te pakeke kia wātea mai he raraunga atu anō. Mēnā e rongo ana koe i ngā tohumate o KOWHEORI-19, whāia kia whakamātauhia koe, ā, e noho ki te kāinga tae noa ki te wā ka whiwhi koe i ngā hua mōu. E whakaaetia ana kia whāngaia koe ki te kano ārai mate ā te wā tonu e kī ana ngā hua o tō whakamātautau kāore koe e pāngia ana . Me tatari kia pau te 20 meneti i muri i te whāngaia ōu ki te kano ārai mate kia kite ai ngā kaimahi hauora kāore e pērā rawa ana te kino o te pāngia ōu e te pāwera. Ko te kōrero nui katoa ka puta mō ngā tauhohenga, ko te mamae o te wāhi i werohia ai, ko te ānini o te māhunga, ko te rongo rānei i te ngenge, i te ruha rānei. Tērā pea ka rangona hoki te mamae o ngā uaua, te māuiui noa iho nei, te hūwiniwini, te kirikā, te mamae o ngā ponapona me te whakapai ruaki. He tohu tēnei e whaihua ana te kano ārai mate. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Ko aua mate rā ka kitea nuitia ana, ka māmā noa iho i te nuinga o te wā, ka mutu kāore e roa ana te mate, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka pā pea ētahi mate āpiti ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. He wā ōna ka puta ētahi mate pāwera kino nei, engari me uaua ka kitea. Kua whakangungua ā mātou kaiwhāngai i te tangata ki te kano ārai mate kia whakahaerehia ēnei āhuatanga. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te maremare hou e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, whakaritea hoki kia whakamātautauria tō tinana mō KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kāore koe i te mōhio ki te āhua o ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waeahia te Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ka āta kī atu ai ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. www.health.govt.nz/covid-vaccine (external link) Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect [PDF, 88 KB] --- Section Separator --- Ko ngā kano ārai mate tētahi huarahi e ārai ai tātou i te mate urutā o KOWHEORI-19, hei tiaki hoki i te oranga o ō tātou hapori. Kāore he utu o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka tiaki ngā kano ārai mate i tō hauora, ā, ka ārai atu i te mate mā te mahi tahi me ngā wāhanga papare o tō tinana e kaha ai koe ki te ārai atu i te wheori, mehemea ka noho mōrearea koe. Ka whaihua te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mā te whakaoho i tō pūnaha awhikiri e hua mai ai ngā paturopi, ngā pūtau toto hoki e whai nei ki te ārai i te wheori o KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 tētahi mahi hei whāinga māu e ārai ai koe i a koe anō i ngā pānga o te wheori. Heoi anō, kāore mātou i te mōhio mēnā ka riro mā tēnei e mutu ai tō pāngia rānei e te wheori, tō whakapā atu rānei i te wheori ki tangata kē. Kia uru ki a koe te kano ārai mate, me tūpato tonu hei aukati wawe i te horapa haeretanga o KOWHEORI-19. Me āta horoi, me āta whakamaroke hoki ō ringaringa. Me maremare, me matihe hoki ki tō tuke, ā, me noho ki te kāinga mehemea ka māuiui koe. Mā tēnei koe e āwhina ki te tiaki i a koe anō, i tō whānau, i ētahi atu hoki. Me whakamahi tonu i te taupānga whakatewhatewha mō KOWHEORI, whakakāngia te wāhanga o te Hono Iarere o tō waea, ā, tērā pea ka hiahia koe ki te mau i tō tākai mata, i tō ārai mata rānei. Whakaae noa ai a Medsafe kia whakamahia te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa i te wā e whakaae ana rātou kua eke ki te taumata o te haumaru, o te whaihua hoki e tika ana kia whakamahia. Kotahi tonu te whakamātautau haumaru me whai e ngā kano ārai mate katoa e pā ana ki a KOWHEORI- 19, ka mutu me eke te katoa ki ōna paerewa ruarangi e ōrite ana. Kāore koe e pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 mā tēnei kano ārai mate. Me rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga, kia āhua toru wiki te roa i waenga i ngā mea e rua. E eke ai te tiakanga ōu ki te taumata, me whai koe kia rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga ōu ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore koe e tae atu i te wā kua whakaritea, me wawe tonu tō whakarite i tētahi atu wā. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te pāwera kino rawa atu, mēnā rānei i tere tonu te pāngia ōu e te pāwera nā te kano ārai mate, nā te werohanga rānei i mua, tēnā kōrerotia tēnei ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki te rongoā whakawaiwai toto, mēnā rānei e pāngia ana koe e te mate ā-toto, whakamōhiotia te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e hapū ana koe, e whāngai pēpē ana rānei koe ki te ū, tēnā kōrero atu ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate, ki tō tākuta rānei, ki tō tapuhi whakawhānau rānei. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki ngā rongoā mō te mate pukupuku, arā, ki a Keytruda rānei, ki a Opdivo rānei, ki a Yervoy rānei, ki a Tecentriq rānei, kōrero ki tō mātanga e mōhio ai koe mēnā me whāngai koe ki te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā, kāore mātou i te whakawātea i te kano ārai mate a Pfizer ki te hunga e tamariki ake ana i te 16 tau te pakeke kia wātea mai he raraunga atu anō. Mēnā e rongo ana koe i ngā tohumate o KOWHEORI-19, whāia kia whakamātauhia koe, ā, e noho ki te kāinga tae noa ki te wā ka whiwhi koe i ngā hua mōu. E whakaaetia ana kia whāngaia koe ki te kano ārai mate ā te wā tonu e kī ana ngā hua o tō whakamātautau kāore koe e pāngia ana . Me tatari kia pau te 20 meneti i muri i te whāngaia ōu ki te kano ārai mate kia kite ai ngā kaimahi hauora kāore e pērā rawa ana te kino o te pāngia ōu e te pāwera. Ko te kōrero nui katoa ka puta mō ngā tauhohenga, ko te mamae o te wāhi i werohia ai, ko te ānini o te māhunga, ko te rongo rānei i te ngenge, i te ruha rānei. Tērā pea ka rangona hoki te mamae o ngā uaua, te māuiui noa iho nei, te hūwiniwini, te kirikā, te mamae o ngā ponapona me te whakapai ruaki. He tohu tēnei e whaihua ana te kano ārai mate. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Ko aua mate rā ka kitea nuitia ana, ka māmā noa iho i te nuinga o te wā, ka mutu kāore e roa ana te mate, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka pā pea ētahi mate āpiti ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. He wā ōna ka puta ētahi mate pāwera kino nei, engari me uaua ka kitea. Kua whakangungua ā mātou kaiwhāngai i te tangata ki te kano ārai mate kia whakahaerehia ēnei āhuatanga. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te maremare hou e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, whakaritea hoki kia whakamātautauria tō tinana mō KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kāore koe i te mōhio ki te āhua o ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waeahia te Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ka āta kī atu ai ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. www.health.govt.nz/covid-vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect [PDF, 88 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Religious communities Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan --- Section Separator --- Find out when you can get a vaccine Kua whai a Aotearoa i ngā pota 10 miriona o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech. E nui ana ērā e werohia ai ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate me whai e whakatōngia ai rātou ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19. He mahere tā te Kāwanatanga e utukore ai, e tōkeke ai hoki te wātea o te kano ārai mate ki a rātou. Ka whakamātāmuatia te hunga e nui ake ana te mōrearea i a KOWHEORI-19. E hiahia ana mātou kia whai wāhi ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki te ārai i a rātou anō, i ō rātou whānau me ō tātou hapori, mā te werohanga ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19. Ka tohaina haerehia ngā pota ki ngā rōpū e whā. Ko te whāinga, kia werohia ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki te kano ārai mate i mua i te mutunga o te tau 2021. Ko te hunga tuatahi ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate ko ō tātou kaimahi kei ngā ripa tauārai me te hunga e noho tahi ana ki a rātou. Ka whai wāhi ki tēnei rōpū ngā kaiwhakapaipai, ngā nēhi e whakahaere ana i ngā arowhai hauora i ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi, ngā kaiwhakahaumaru, ngā āpiha o te mana ārai, o te ripa tauārai anō hoki, ngā kaimahi hōtēra, ngā kaimahi pukumaire me ngā pirihimana e tika ana kia whakaurua ki ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi, ngā kaimahi waka rererangi, ngā mana taunga poti me ngā kaiwero i te kano ārai mate. Ka rere ngā werohanga o tēnei Rōpū ki te kano ārai mate hei a Pēpuere me Māehe o te tau 2021. Kia mutu te whakatōngia o ō tātou kaimahi kei ngā ripa tauārai me te hunga e noho tahi ana ki a rātou ki te kano ārai mate, kātahi mātou ka whakatōngia ki te kano ārai mate ko ngā kaimahi hauora kei ngā aroaro ākapa e nui ana te tūpono pāngia ki a KOWHEORI-19, e nui ana hoki/rānei te tūpono o te horanga o te mate rā mā ō rātou whakawhitinga me te tūroro. Kei te Rōpū 2 hoki ko ngā Māori me ngā tāngata o Te Moana nui a Kiwa e pakeke ake ana, e tiakina nei e ngā whānau (ko ērā hoki e noho tahi ana ki a rātou, me ō rātou kaitiaki). Hei wāhanga hoki mō tēnei Rōpū, ka werohia hoki ki te kano ārai mate ko ērā kei te takiwā hauora (DHB) o te tonga o Tāmaki kua 65+ ngā tau, ko ērā rānei e raru nei ō rātou pūnaha awhikiri, ko ērā rānei e hauā ana. Ka werohia te Rōpū 2 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Maehe ki a Mei, i te tau 2021. I te Rōpū 3, ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate, ko ngā tāngata kua 65+ ngā tau, ko ērā e raru nei ō rātou pūnaha awhikiri, ko ērā rānei e hauā ana, ko ērā pakeke hoki e tautiakina ana e te ture. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ngā āhuatanga e kīia ai kua raru te pūnaha awhikiri ko te manawa toto pūroto, ko te toto pōrutu, ko te roro ikura, ko te matehuka, ko ngā mate mau tonu ki te pukapuka, ko te mate tākihi me te mate pukupuku. Ka rere ngā werohanga o te Rōpū 3 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Mei o te 2021 ā haere ake. I te Rōpū 4, ka wātea te huarahi kia werohia ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 ko ērā atu tāngata katoa kua 16 tau te pakeke, kua pakeke ake rānei i tērā, kāore anō kia whakatōngia ki te kano ārai mate. Kāore anō kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te werohia o ngā tāngata e tamariki ake ana i te 16 tau te pakeke ki te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech. Ka rere ngā werohanga o te Rōpū 4 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Hūrae o te tau 2021 ā haere ake. Ahakoa mā te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 e ārai atu te wheori ā haere ake nei, me kaha tonu tātou katoa ki te whai wāhi ki te aukatinga o KOWHEORI-19 i ō tātou hapori. Me ū tonu tātou ki ngā tikanga matua e 4: te horoi ringaringa, te karapa i ngā tohu āurupare wawe (QR), te whakakā i te hono iarere (Bluetooth) me te noho i te kāinga ina pāngia e te māuiui. Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta i te wā o te werohia ou Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta mai i muri i te werohia ōu --- Section Separator --- Find out when you can get a vaccine Kua whai a Aotearoa i ngā pota 10 miriona o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech. E nui ana ērā e werohia ai ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate me whai e whakatōngia ai rātou ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19. He mahere tā te Kāwanatanga e utukore ai, e tōkeke ai hoki te wātea o te kano ārai mate ki a rātou. Ka whakamātāmuatia te hunga e nui ake ana te mōrearea i a KOWHEORI-19. E hiahia ana mātou kia whai wāhi ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki te ārai i a rātou anō, i ō rātou whānau me ō tātou hapori, mā te werohanga ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19. Ka tohaina haerehia ngā pota ki ngā rōpū e whā. Ko te whāinga, kia werohia ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki te kano ārai mate i mua i te mutunga o te tau 2021. Ko te hunga tuatahi ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate ko ō tātou kaimahi kei ngā ripa tauārai me te hunga e noho tahi ana ki a rātou. Ka whai wāhi ki tēnei rōpū ngā kaiwhakapaipai, ngā nēhi e whakahaere ana i ngā arowhai hauora i ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi, ngā kaiwhakahaumaru, ngā āpiha o te mana ārai, o te ripa tauārai anō hoki, ngā kaimahi hōtēra, ngā kaimahi pukumaire me ngā pirihimana e tika ana kia whakaurua ki ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi, ngā kaimahi waka rererangi, ngā mana taunga poti me ngā kaiwero i te kano ārai mate. Ka rere ngā werohanga o tēnei Rōpū ki te kano ārai mate hei a Pēpuere me Māehe o te tau 2021. Kia mutu te whakatōngia o ō tātou kaimahi kei ngā ripa tauārai me te hunga e noho tahi ana ki a rātou ki te kano ārai mate, kātahi mātou ka whakatōngia ki te kano ārai mate ko ngā kaimahi hauora kei ngā aroaro ākapa e nui ana te tūpono pāngia ki a KOWHEORI-19, e nui ana hoki/rānei te tūpono o te horanga o te mate rā mā ō rātou whakawhitinga me te tūroro. Kei te Rōpū 2 hoki ko ngā Māori me ngā tāngata o Te Moana nui a Kiwa e pakeke ake ana, e tiakina nei e ngā whānau (ko ērā hoki e noho tahi ana ki a rātou, me ō rātou kaitiaki). Hei wāhanga hoki mō tēnei Rōpū, ka werohia hoki ki te kano ārai mate ko ērā kei te takiwā hauora (DHB) o te tonga o Tāmaki kua 65+ ngā tau, ko ērā rānei e raru nei ō rātou pūnaha awhikiri, ko ērā rānei e hauā ana. Ka werohia te Rōpū 2 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Maehe ki a Mei, i te tau 2021. I te Rōpū 3, ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate, ko ngā tāngata kua 65+ ngā tau, ko ērā e raru nei ō rātou pūnaha awhikiri, ko ērā rānei e hauā ana, ko ērā pakeke hoki e tautiakina ana e te ture. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ngā āhuatanga e kīia ai kua raru te pūnaha awhikiri ko te manawa toto pūroto, ko te toto pōrutu, ko te roro ikura, ko te matehuka, ko ngā mate mau tonu ki te pukapuka, ko te mate tākihi me te mate pukupuku. Ka rere ngā werohanga o te Rōpū 3 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Mei o te 2021 ā haere ake. I te Rōpū 4, ka wātea te huarahi kia werohia ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 ko ērā atu tāngata katoa kua 16 tau te pakeke, kua pakeke ake rānei i tērā, kāore anō kia whakatōngia ki te kano ārai mate. Kāore anō kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te werohia o ngā tāngata e tamariki ake ana i te 16 tau te pakeke ki te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech. Ka rere ngā werohanga o te Rōpū 4 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Hūrae o te tau 2021 ā haere ake. Ahakoa mā te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 e ārai atu te wheori ā haere ake nei, me kaha tonu tātou katoa ki te whai wāhi ki te aukatinga o KOWHEORI-19 i ō tātou hapori. Me ū tonu tātou ki ngā tikanga matua e 4: te horoi ringaringa, te karapa i ngā tohu āurupare wawe (QR), te whakakā i te hono iarere (Bluetooth) me te noho i te kāinga ina pāngia e te māuiui. Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta i te wā o te werohia ou Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta mai i muri i te werohia ōu --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Religious communities Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te werohanga kano ārai mate me tō mahi | Vaccination and your job --- Section Separator --- Ko te nuinga o ngā mahi i Aotearoa i te wā nei ka taea e ngā tāngata kāore anō i whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapu ka aha mēnā ko te mahi e mahi ana koe, me oti i tētahi kaimahi kua whiwhi kano ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Kāore e taea e tō kaitukumahi te tuku mōhiohio mō tō tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate ki tētahi atu, māna kua whakaae koe kia pērā, māna rānei he okotahi kei raro i te Ture Matatapu. Ehara i te mea me whāki koe ki tō kaitukumahi kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate. Ina whakatau koe kia kaua e werohia ki te kano ārai mate, ehara i te mea me whāki koe he aha ai. Mēnā kei roto koe i tētahi tūranga mahi me oti i tētahi kaimahi kua werohia e te kano ārai mate, engari kāore tonu koe i te hiahia whāki i tō tūnga werohanga kano, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te kī he whiwhinga-kore koe i te kano, engari me kōrero ia ki a koe e pērā ana ia. Mēnā e whakaaro ana tō kaituku mahi tērā ētahi mahi hei mahi mā ngā kaimahi whai kano ārai mate anake, i runga anō i ngā take hauora me te haumaru, me whakahaere ia i tētahi aromatawai mōrearea mō te whakaraerae KOWHEORI-19. Ko tēnei aromatawai me oti i te taha o ngā kaimahi, ngā uniana me ētahi atu māngai. Me whai whakaaro te aromatawai morearea: ki te tūponotanga whakaraerae o ngā kaimahi ki te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e mahi ana i taua mahi ngā tūpono pānga o tērā - hei tauira, te rere ā-hapori. He aratohu āmiki atu tā WorkSafe mō ngā aromatawai mōrearea. Te aromatawai mēnā e tika ana kia mahia taua mahi motuhake e tētahi kaimahi whai kano ārai mate. (external link) Ka hāngai tonu ngā takohanga ture mahi o nāianei. Arā: te whakarerekē i ngā tikanga me ngā here o te mahi mā te whakaaetanga te whakawhitiwhiti whakaaro i runga i te pono te karo i te whakahāweatanga takahi ture o ngā kaimahi i runga i te tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate te kore e whai i ngā mahi ka tūpono whakararu tikakore i ngā kaimahi i runga i te āhua o te tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate. Ahakoa ehara te kano ārai mate i te āhuatanga whakature, ā, kei te tangata tonu te tikanga ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ko ngā mahi katoa e kawea ana i ngā taiao MIQ, rohe whenua mōrearea teitei rānei, me oti i te hunga kua werohia ki te kano ārai i te mate KOWHEORI--19. Ka uru ngā kaimahi kāwanatanga i ngā taunga rererangi ā-ao, ngā wāpu me ngā rererangi. Tērā ētahi okotahi ki tēnei. Hei tauira, ka taea e te tangata kore kano ārai mate te uru atu me te mahi i ngā wā me ngā wāhi hei whakaora, hei tiaki rānei i te oranga o te tangata, te hauora me te haumaru i te wā o te ohotata; mēnā rānei e whakamanahia ana i raro i te ture. Ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate mā ngā kaimahi i ngā taiao rohe whenua mōrearea teitei Mēnā kaore kōrua ko tō kaituku mahi i te whakaae tahi mō te āhuatanga o ngā mahi hei whakaoti mā te kaimahi kua whai kano ārai mate anake, ka āhei koe ki te toro atu ki te Ratonga Whakatau Wawe. E tāpae ana i tētahi tukanga kore utu, ōpaki hoki e whakamātau ana ki te whakatau i ngā take. Ratonga Whakatau Wawe (external link) Te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te mahi - Employment NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te nuinga o ngā mahi i Aotearoa i te wā nei ka taea e ngā tāngata kāore anō i whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapu ka aha mēnā ko te mahi e mahi ana koe, me oti i tētahi kaimahi kua whiwhi kano ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Kāore e taea e tō kaitukumahi te tuku mōhiohio mō tō tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate ki tētahi atu, māna kua whakaae koe kia pērā, māna rānei he okotahi kei raro i te Ture Matatapu. Ehara i te mea me whāki koe ki tō kaitukumahi kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate. Ina whakatau koe kia kaua e werohia ki te kano ārai mate, ehara i te mea me whāki koe he aha ai. Mēnā kei roto koe i tētahi tūranga mahi me oti i tētahi kaimahi kua werohia e te kano ārai mate, engari kāore tonu koe i te hiahia whāki i tō tūnga werohanga kano, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te kī he whiwhinga-kore koe i te kano, engari me kōrero ia ki a koe e pērā ana ia. Mēnā e whakaaro ana tō kaituku mahi tērā ētahi mahi hei mahi mā ngā kaimahi whai kano ārai mate anake, i runga anō i ngā take hauora me te haumaru, me whakahaere ia i tētahi aromatawai mōrearea mō te whakaraerae KOWHEORI-19. Ko tēnei aromatawai me oti i te taha o ngā kaimahi, ngā uniana me ētahi atu māngai. Me whai whakaaro te aromatawai morearea: ki te tūponotanga whakaraerae o ngā kaimahi ki te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e mahi ana i taua mahi ngā tūpono pānga o tērā - hei tauira, te rere ā-hapori. He aratohu āmiki atu tā WorkSafe mō ngā aromatawai mōrearea. Te aromatawai mēnā e tika ana kia mahia taua mahi motuhake e tētahi kaimahi whai kano ārai mate. (external link) Ka hāngai tonu ngā takohanga ture mahi o nāianei. Arā: te whakarerekē i ngā tikanga me ngā here o te mahi mā te whakaaetanga te whakawhitiwhiti whakaaro i runga i te pono te karo i te whakahāweatanga takahi ture o ngā kaimahi i runga i te tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate te kore e whai i ngā mahi ka tūpono whakararu tikakore i ngā kaimahi i runga i te āhua o te tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate. Ahakoa ehara te kano ārai mate i te āhuatanga whakature, ā, kei te tangata tonu te tikanga ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ko ngā mahi katoa e kawea ana i ngā taiao MIQ, rohe whenua mōrearea teitei rānei, me oti i te hunga kua werohia ki te kano ārai i te mate KOWHEORI--19. Ka uru ngā kaimahi kāwanatanga i ngā taunga rererangi ā-ao, ngā wāpu me ngā rererangi. Tērā ētahi okotahi ki tēnei. Hei tauira, ka taea e te tangata kore kano ārai mate te uru atu me te mahi i ngā wā me ngā wāhi hei whakaora, hei tiaki rānei i te oranga o te tangata, te hauora me te haumaru i te wā o te ohotata; mēnā rānei e whakamanahia ana i raro i te ture. Ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate mā ngā kaimahi i ngā taiao rohe whenua mōrearea teitei Mēnā kaore kōrua ko tō kaituku mahi i te whakaae tahi mō te āhuatanga o ngā mahi hei whakaoti mā te kaimahi kua whai kano ārai mate anake, ka āhei koe ki te toro atu ki te Ratonga Whakatau Wawe. E tāpae ana i tētahi tukanga kore utu, ōpaki hoki e whakamātau ana ki te whakatau i ngā take. Ratonga Whakatau Wawe (external link) Te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te mahi - Employment NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Religious communities Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Ko wai e āhei ana ki tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? | Who can get a COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 16 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene, ā, ka tiakina tō matataputanga. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. I konei koe ka kite i ngā mōhiohio whaitake o te hunga e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate, tae atu ki ngā āhuatanga pēnei i tō pakeke, mēnā e hapū ana, e whāngote ana rānei, mēnā he pānga pāwera tāu ki te kano ārai mate i mua, mēnā rānei he tūmomo mate mauroa tāhau. E kore e taea e ngā tāngata i raro i te 16 tau te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i tēnei wā. Ko ngā whakaaturanga mai o te kano ārai mate, he tino whaihua, haumaru hoki mā ngā tāngata pakeke ake i te 65 tau. E pai ana mā te hunga kaimanga. Kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Kāore hoki he paturopi, he hua toto, he DNA, he pūmua, he matū kōpū, he kurutene, he hua poaka, he tāroki, he hoi, kāore rānei he latex (i hangaia mai te taupoki ipuipu i te rapa horihori - bromobutyl). Rapua te rārangi whakauru nui o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer (external link) Mēnā e hapū ana koe, ka taea e koe tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i ngā wāhanga hapūtanga katoa. E whakaatu ana ngā raraunga mai i te maha o ngā tāngata hapū kua whiwhi kē i te kano ārai mate i te ao, kāore he māharahara haumaru tāpiri o te tuku i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka whai hua pea te pēpi mai i te tuku kano ārai mate i te hapūtanga, i te mea he taunakitanga e whakaatu ana i te tukunga o te paturopi i te toto taura me te waiū, e tuku ana pea i te āraitanga ki ngā pēpi mā te awhikiri taupoto. Mēnā he pātai āu, māharahara rānei, kōrerotia ki tō mātanga hauora. Mēnā e whakaaro ana koe i tētahi hapūtanga ka taea tonu e koe te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore e pā kinotia ō ira, tō matahua rānei e te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore te mRNA mai i te kano ārai mate e kuhu ki te karihi o ngā ira, te wāhi o tō DNA. Kāore he wāhanga o te kano ārai mate, o te pūmua koikoi rānei ka hua mai, e tae ki te wharekano, ngā raho rānei. Mēnā i pā tētahi pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrerotia atu tēnei ki tō tākuta, mātanga hauora, kaituku kano rānei. Kaua e haere ki te tiki kano ārai mēnā he hītori tāu o te whai tauhohe pāwera tino taumaha: ki tētahi whakaurunga o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki tētahi werohanga o mua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer He aha kei roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, e aua atu te mate kirikā i te 38°C, me whakatārewa e koe tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia ora mai ai koe. Kāore e taea e koe te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e whiwhi ana koe i ētahi atu kano ārai mate. Me tatari mō tētahi wā, i runga anō i te āhua o te kano ārai mate. Tatari mō te 2 wiki i waenga i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te kano ārai mate rewharewha. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā wehenga o ēnei werohanga e rua. Ka taea e koe te kano ārai mate rewharewha atu i te 2 wiki i muri i tō werohanga tuarua. Mēnā kāore ō toronga whakarite mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, tīkina tō kano ārai mate rewharewha i te tuatahi. Ka taea e koe tō werohanga KOWHEORI-19 tuatahi i te 2 wiki i muri mai o tēnei. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā i waenga i ēnei werohanga e rua. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 2 wiki i muri o te werohanga tuarua, i mua o tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate MMR. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate MMR i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 4 wiki i mua i tō whiwhinga i te werohanga tuatahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. Ka taea e koe te āheinga wawe ki te kano ārai mate mēnā kei tua koe o te 16 tau, ā, ka ea i a koe tētahi, ētahi rānei o ngā paearu nei: He mate hauora tāu, ko te tikanga o tēnei mate e māraurau ana koe mō te kano ārai mate rewharewha ka utua e te kāwanatanga, tae atu ki te hunga e hapū ana. Kua kohuratia koe ki te mate hinengaro taumaha (tae atu ki te mate tuakoi, mate pāpouri nui, mate bipolar, mate huinga tohumate tuakoi maha rānei, me ngā pākeke e whiwhi ana i te hauora hinengaro tuarua, tuatoru rānei me ngā ratonga waranga). He ngoikore te whakahaeretanga o te pēhanga toto nui, he taumaha rānei te pēhanga toto nui. I tēnei āhuatanga, ko te whakamārama o te taumaha, me whiwhi i ngā rongoā whakahaere e rua, neke atu rānei. He tino mōmona koe (kua tautuhia hei BMI ≥40). Mō ētahi atu tohutohu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te wā e pāngia ana e ngā mate taumaha, e whiwhi maimoatanga ana, mātaitanga, kai rongoā rānei, tēnā haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Kupu tohutohu kano ārai mate mā ngā rōpū motuhake me ngā tūmate hauora - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 16 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene, ā, ka tiakina tō matataputanga. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. I konei koe ka kite i ngā mōhiohio whaitake o te hunga e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate, tae atu ki ngā āhuatanga pēnei i tō pakeke, mēnā e hapū ana, e whāngote ana rānei, mēnā he pānga pāwera tāu ki te kano ārai mate i mua, mēnā rānei he tūmomo mate mauroa tāhau. E kore e taea e ngā tāngata i raro i te 16 tau te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i tēnei wā. Ko ngā whakaaturanga mai o te kano ārai mate, he tino whaihua, haumaru hoki mā ngā tāngata pakeke ake i te 65 tau. E pai ana mā te hunga kaimanga. Kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Kāore hoki he paturopi, he hua toto, he DNA, he pūmua, he matū kōpū, he kurutene, he hua poaka, he tāroki, he hoi, kāore rānei he latex (i hangaia mai te taupoki ipuipu i te rapa horihori - bromobutyl). Rapua te rārangi whakauru nui o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer (external link) Mēnā e hapū ana koe, ka taea e koe tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i ngā wāhanga hapūtanga katoa. E whakaatu ana ngā raraunga mai i te maha o ngā tāngata hapū kua whiwhi kē i te kano ārai mate i te ao, kāore he māharahara haumaru tāpiri o te tuku i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka whai hua pea te pēpi mai i te tuku kano ārai mate i te hapūtanga, i te mea he taunakitanga e whakaatu ana i te tukunga o te paturopi i te toto taura me te waiū, e tuku ana pea i te āraitanga ki ngā pēpi mā te awhikiri taupoto. Mēnā he pātai āu, māharahara rānei, kōrerotia ki tō mātanga hauora. Mēnā e whakaaro ana koe i tētahi hapūtanga ka taea tonu e koe te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore e pā kinotia ō ira, tō matahua rānei e te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore te mRNA mai i te kano ārai mate e kuhu ki te karihi o ngā ira, te wāhi o tō DNA. Kāore he wāhanga o te kano ārai mate, o te pūmua koikoi rānei ka hua mai, e tae ki te wharekano, ngā raho rānei. Mēnā i pā tētahi pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrerotia atu tēnei ki tō tākuta, mātanga hauora, kaituku kano rānei. Kaua e haere ki te tiki kano ārai mēnā he hītori tāu o te whai tauhohe pāwera tino taumaha: ki tētahi whakaurunga o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki tētahi werohanga o mua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer He aha kei roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, e aua atu te mate kirikā i te 38°C, me whakatārewa e koe tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia ora mai ai koe. Kāore e taea e koe te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e whiwhi ana koe i ētahi atu kano ārai mate. Me tatari mō tētahi wā, i runga anō i te āhua o te kano ārai mate. Tatari mō te 2 wiki i waenga i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te kano ārai mate rewharewha. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā wehenga o ēnei werohanga e rua. Ka taea e koe te kano ārai mate rewharewha atu i te 2 wiki i muri i tō werohanga tuarua. Mēnā kāore ō toronga whakarite mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, tīkina tō kano ārai mate rewharewha i te tuatahi. Ka taea e koe tō werohanga KOWHEORI-19 tuatahi i te 2 wiki i muri mai o tēnei. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā i waenga i ēnei werohanga e rua. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 2 wiki i muri o te werohanga tuarua, i mua o tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate MMR. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate MMR i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 4 wiki i mua i tō whiwhinga i te werohanga tuatahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. Ka taea e koe te āheinga wawe ki te kano ārai mate mēnā kei tua koe o te 16 tau, ā, ka ea i a koe tētahi, ētahi rānei o ngā paearu nei: He mate hauora tāu, ko te tikanga o tēnei mate e māraurau ana koe mō te kano ārai mate rewharewha ka utua e te kāwanatanga, tae atu ki te hunga e hapū ana. Kua kohuratia koe ki te mate hinengaro taumaha (tae atu ki te mate tuakoi, mate pāpouri nui, mate bipolar, mate huinga tohumate tuakoi maha rānei, me ngā pākeke e whiwhi ana i te hauora hinengaro tuarua, tuatoru rānei me ngā ratonga waranga). He ngoikore te whakahaeretanga o te pēhanga toto nui, he taumaha rānei te pēhanga toto nui. I tēnei āhuatanga, ko te whakamārama o te taumaha, me whiwhi i ngā rongoā whakahaere e rua, neke atu rānei. He tino mōmona koe (kua tautuhia hei BMI ≥40). Mō ētahi atu tohutohu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te wā e pāngia ana e ngā mate taumaha, e whiwhi maimoatanga ana, mātaitanga, kai rongoā rānei, tēnā haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Kupu tohutohu kano ārai mate mā ngā rōpū motuhake me ngā tūmate hauora - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Religious communities Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Ngā kōrero taketake mō te kano ārai mate | Vaccine basics --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 16 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene. Ko wai e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? E āta whakaputa haeretia ana te kano ārai mate. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 16 tau te pakeke, kei roto i tētahi o ngā kāhui kano ārai mate e 4. Tuatahi, ka tiakina e mātou te hunga e tino mōrearea ana o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 i tō rātou wāhi mahi.  Mā tēnei e whakaiti i te mōrearea o ngā pokenga me ngā rāhuitanga ā muri ake nei. Whai muri mai, ka tukuna te kano ārai mate ki te hunga e tino mōrearea ana o te pānga ki te mate taumaha, te mate tonu atu rānei ina pā te huaketo ki a rātou. Hei te mutunga, ka tukuna te kano ārai mate ki te rahinga atu o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa kei tua o te 16 tau te pakeke. He kore utu te kano ārai mate mā te katoa, ahakoa tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Rapua āhea taea ai e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi mō tētahi take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei, ka taea pea e koe te tono mō te werohanga kano ārai mate wawe. Me pēhea te tono mo te werohanga wawe Te kano ārai mate me tō tūranga mahi Ko te kano ārai mate a Pfizer anake te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia i Aotearoa. Kua riro i a mātou te 10 miriona werohanga - ka nui tēnei mō te 5 miriona tāngata, kia whiwhi i ngā werohanga e 2 e tika ana kia āraitia. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer: he kano ārai mate karere RNA (mRNA) kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto kāore koe e pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 kāore e pā kinotia tō DNA kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Me whiwhi koe i tō werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate i te 21 rā, neke atu rānei (3 wiki) i muri mai i te werohanga tuatahi. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i muri i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapu kōrero mō ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate Ka aromatawaitia ngā tono o ngā rongoā hou katoa e te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa e Medsafe. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā kano ārai mate. Kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te whakamahinga o tētahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, me whakapono ia ka: ea katoa ngā hihiratanga haumaru a Aotearoa whai i ngā paerewa ā-ao mō te haumarutanga, te whaihuatanga me te kounga. He tino whaihua te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā ka whiwhi te tangata i ngā werohanga e rua. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i pehea te whanaketanga me te whakaaetanga o te kano ārai mate Kia whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, kāore koe i te tiaki noa iho i a koe. E whai wāhi ana koe ki te whakaititanga o te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. He wawe rawa i tēnei wā ki te whai mōhio mēnā ka taea e koe te tuku i te huaketo i muri mai o te werohanga ārai mate. Hei āwhina ki te ārai i a koutou ko tō whānau me ētahi atu, me āwhina tonu koe ki te ārai i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19 i muri mai i te werohanga kano ārai mate. Ki mahara ki te: Āta horoi i ō ringa Me maremare, matihe hoki ki tō tuke. Me mau kōpare i runga i ngā ikiiki tūmatanui Whai haere tonu i ō tapuwae Whakakāhia te rapunga hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer Noho ki te kāinga ka waea ki Healthline ( 0800 358 5453 (external link) ) mēnā kei te māuiui koe He nui ngā mōhiohio tuihono, pae pāpori hoki mō te kano ārai mate. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono mō ngā kano ārai mate E rapu ana mātou i ētahi atu kaituku kano ārai mate hei tautoko i te whakaputanga o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā he mātanga hauora kua tāoki, kāore rānei i te mahi i tēnei wā i te ahumahi hauora, ā, e hiahia ana koe ki te tū hei kaitūao, haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora ki te rēhita i tō hiahia. Rēhitatia tō hiahia ki te tū hei kaituku kano ārai mate (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 16 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene. Ko wai e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? E āta whakaputa haeretia ana te kano ārai mate. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 16 tau te pakeke, kei roto i tētahi o ngā kāhui kano ārai mate e 4. Tuatahi, ka tiakina e mātou te hunga e tino mōrearea ana o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 i tō rātou wāhi mahi.  Mā tēnei e whakaiti i te mōrearea o ngā pokenga me ngā rāhuitanga ā muri ake nei. Whai muri mai, ka tukuna te kano ārai mate ki te hunga e tino mōrearea ana o te pānga ki te mate taumaha, te mate tonu atu rānei ina pā te huaketo ki a rātou. Hei te mutunga, ka tukuna te kano ārai mate ki te rahinga atu o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa kei tua o te 16 tau te pakeke. He kore utu te kano ārai mate mā te katoa, ahakoa tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Rapua āhea taea ai e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi mō tētahi take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei, ka taea pea e koe te tono mō te werohanga kano ārai mate wawe. Me pēhea te tono mo te werohanga wawe Te kano ārai mate me tō tūranga mahi Ko te kano ārai mate a Pfizer anake te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia i Aotearoa. Kua riro i a mātou te 10 miriona werohanga - ka nui tēnei mō te 5 miriona tāngata, kia whiwhi i ngā werohanga e 2 e tika ana kia āraitia. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer: he kano ārai mate karere RNA (mRNA) kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto kāore koe e pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 kāore e pā kinotia tō DNA kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Me whiwhi koe i tō werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate i te 21 rā, neke atu rānei (3 wiki) i muri mai i te werohanga tuatahi. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i muri i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapu kōrero mō ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate Ka aromatawaitia ngā tono o ngā rongoā hou katoa e te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa e Medsafe. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā kano ārai mate. Kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te whakamahinga o tētahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, me whakapono ia ka: ea katoa ngā hihiratanga haumaru a Aotearoa whai i ngā paerewa ā-ao mō te haumarutanga, te whaihuatanga me te kounga. He tino whaihua te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā ka whiwhi te tangata i ngā werohanga e rua. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i pehea te whanaketanga me te whakaaetanga o te kano ārai mate Kia whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, kāore koe i te tiaki noa iho i a koe. E whai wāhi ana koe ki te whakaititanga o te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. He wawe rawa i tēnei wā ki te whai mōhio mēnā ka taea e koe te tuku i te huaketo i muri mai o te werohanga ārai mate. Hei āwhina ki te ārai i a koutou ko tō whānau me ētahi atu, me āwhina tonu koe ki te ārai i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19 i muri mai i te werohanga kano ārai mate. Ki mahara ki te: Āta horoi i ō ringa Me maremare, matihe hoki ki tō tuke. Me mau kōpare i runga i ngā ikiiki tūmatanui Whai haere tonu i ō tapuwae Whakakāhia te rapunga hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer Noho ki te kāinga ka waea ki Healthline ( 0800 358 5453 (external link) ) mēnā kei te māuiui koe He nui ngā mōhiohio tuihono, pae pāpori hoki mō te kano ārai mate. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono mō ngā kano ārai mate E rapu ana mātou i ētahi atu kaituku kano ārai mate hei tautoko i te whakaputanga o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā he mātanga hauora kua tāoki, kāore rānei i te mahi i tēnei wā i te ahumahi hauora, ā, e hiahia ana koe ki te tū hei kaitūao, haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora ki te rēhita i tō hiahia. Rēhitatia tō hiahia ki te tū hei kaituku kano ārai mate (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Religious communities Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi kano ārai mate | Vaccine posters and resources --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Information for Pacific Peoples Information for disabled people Religious communities Support your community Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te akuaku | Hygiene posters Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Posters --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Encourage visitors to use NZ COVID Tracer You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Scan in to help us stay open [PDF, 153 KB] Scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 192 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 153 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.7 MB] Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 249 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] All actions to keep safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 167 KB] Wash and dry your hands (simple) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and sanitise your hands often [PDF, 120 KB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick [PDF, 116 KB] Stay home if you are sick [PDF, 60 KB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you're waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] Please sit here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please don't sit here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] Testing station parking — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Testing station parking — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Be kind [PNG, 85 KB] If you are sick or have symptoms, stay home [PNG, 98 KB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PNG, 97 KB] Please keep 2 metres apart [PNG, 103 KB] Scanning in helps to keep us open [PNG, 137 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PNG, 133 KB] Wash and sanitise hands often [PNG, 123 KB] Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Encourage visitors to use NZ COVID Tracer --- Section Separator --- You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Scan in to help us stay open [PDF, 153 KB] Scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 192 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 153 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.7 MB] Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 249 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] All actions to keep safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 167 KB] Wash and dry your hands (simple) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and sanitise your hands often [PDF, 120 KB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick [PDF, 116 KB] Stay home if you are sick [PDF, 60 KB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you're waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] Please sit here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please don't sit here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Testing station parking — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Testing station parking — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Be kind [PNG, 85 KB] If you are sick or have symptoms, stay home [PNG, 98 KB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PNG, 97 KB] Please keep 2 metres apart [PNG, 103 KB] Scanning in helps to keep us open [PNG, 137 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PNG, 133 KB] Wash and sanitise hands often [PNG, 123 KB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages
Information on travelling between New Zealand and some countries without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Information about travelling on public transport and in private vehicles, and travelling between regions. Advice for New Zealanders overseas about how to travel to New Zealand, border controls when you arrive and registering with SafeTravel. Advice for foreign nationals about how to get home, and what to do if you cannot get home. Download and print resources — including posters for wearing face coverings on transport and tracking your journey. --- Section Separator --- Information on travelling between New Zealand and some countries without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Information about travelling on public transport and in private vehicles, and travelling between regions. Advice for New Zealanders overseas about how to travel to New Zealand, border controls when you arrive and registering with SafeTravel. Advice for foreign nationals about how to get home, and what to do if you cannot get home. Download and print resources — including posters for wearing face coverings on transport and tracking your journey.
Advice on how to travel safely on public transport, including buses, trains, domestic flights, taxis and ride-shares. Advice on how to travel safely in a private vehicle. Advice for travelling between different regions of New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Advice on how to travel safely on public transport, including buses, trains, domestic flights, taxis and ride-shares. Advice on how to travel safely in a private vehicle. Advice for travelling between different regions of New Zealand.
Home Travel Foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can use international air services to travel home. However, there may be limited options available. If you cannot secure a ticket, contact your country’s high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. You may be required to self-isolate or enter managed isolation when you arrive, so it’s best to check it now. Embassies will be able to help you find information. You may find that you are not allowed to transit through certain countries. Embassies will be able to help you. Even if you did not book your travel through a travel agent, they can let you know what is happening with your flight, or how to book a flight. Use airline and airport websites to check your flight. Airline schedules have been disrupted so check that your flight is going ahead as scheduled. Airline staff at airports are very busy trying to assist travellers, so make sure you book your flight before you arrive at the airport. Do not turn up at the airport more than 3 hours before departure. You are responsible for understanding how to meet the conditions of your visa in New Zealand at all times. Verify the details of current New Zealand visas (external link) Immigration NZ provides information on visa extensions, new visa expiry dates and changes to visa conditions. Visit the Immigration NZ website to check information about your visa. Visa extensions and visa conditions — Immigration NZ (external link) If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand (external link) Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are stranded in New Zealand and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can use international air services to travel home. However, there may be limited options available. If you cannot secure a ticket, contact your country’s high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. You may be required to self-isolate or enter managed isolation when you arrive, so it’s best to check it now. Embassies will be able to help you find information. You may find that you are not allowed to transit through certain countries. Embassies will be able to help you. Even if you did not book your travel through a travel agent, they can let you know what is happening with your flight, or how to book a flight. Use airline and airport websites to check your flight. Airline schedules have been disrupted so check that your flight is going ahead as scheduled. Airline staff at airports are very busy trying to assist travellers, so make sure you book your flight before you arrive at the airport. Do not turn up at the airport more than 3 hours before departure. --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for understanding how to meet the conditions of your visa in New Zealand at all times. Verify the details of current New Zealand visas (external link) Immigration NZ provides information on visa extensions, new visa expiry dates and changes to visa conditions. Visit the Immigration NZ website to check information about your visa. Visa extensions and visa conditions — Immigration NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who are stranded in New Zealand and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel International travel and transit Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Domestic travel New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand Signs and posters for travelling safely
Entry to New Zealand is strictly controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Managed isolation is an important part of our border measures to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. Travel from 'very high risk' countries to New Zealand is currently restricted. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. You may be asked to complete the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals if you’ve recently arrived in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Entry to New Zealand is strictly controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Managed isolation is an important part of our border measures to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. Travel from 'very high risk' countries to New Zealand is currently restricted. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. You may be asked to complete the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals if you’ve recently arrived in New Zealand.
Home Travel International travel and transit Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — for all destinations except Australia and the Cook Islands. For Australia and the Cook Islands, the New Zealand Government advises you to “exercise increased caution”. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries and territories. Make sure you check what you need to do before you travel, and what you might have to do if the COVID-19 situation changes. You can travel from New Zealand to Australia or the Cook Islands without needing to enter managed isolation. You must meet immigration requirements and eligibility criteria. Make sure you keep up to date on quarantine-free travel requirements. Quarantine-free travel with Australia Quarantine-free travel with the Cook Islands Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your GP. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your GP or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — for all destinations except Australia and the Cook Islands. For Australia and the Cook Islands, the New Zealand Government advises you to “exercise increased caution”. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas --- Section Separator --- If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries and territories. Make sure you check what you need to do before you travel, and what you might have to do if the COVID-19 situation changes. You can travel from New Zealand to Australia or the Cook Islands without needing to enter managed isolation. You must meet immigration requirements and eligibility criteria. Make sure you keep up to date on quarantine-free travel requirements. Quarantine-free travel with Australia Quarantine-free travel with the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your GP. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your GP or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Managed isolation and quarantine --- Section Separator --- Almost all travellers are legally required to have a voucher confirming their place in managed isolation before boarding their flight. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. If you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to secure a voucher and complete 14 days in our managed isolation and quarantine facilities. By completing 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. Over 100,000 people have completed their managed isolation or quarantine stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. When you arrive in New Zealand you are checked for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you are flying quarantine-free to New Zealand, then you will not enter managed isolation and so you do not need a voucher. Get your voucher by registering on the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) Managed Isolation and Quarantine has introducing a ‘cohorting’ system to its facilities. Cohorting is also known as ‘group intake’. Cohorting means that returnees arriving in New Zealand in a 96-hour window will all go to the same facility. They will do this until the facility is full or the 96 hours are over. After this, no more returnees will enter the facility until the last of the group has completed their stay and the facility has been cleaned. Cohorting will keep recent arrivals in the same facility together, and will keep those who are just completing their stay away from new arrivals. Doing this reduces the risk of transmitting COVID-19 inside the facilities. Special purpose facilities will not use cohorting, for example Jet Park, which is a quarantine facility. You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in managed isolation or quarantine. The Government recovers some of the costs for managed isolation. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for managed isolation and who needs to pay (external link) Most people will be tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of their stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You may be asked to remain in your room until the result of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight into a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your managed isolation facility to complete the rest of your stay. You will be tested for COVID-19 again around day 3 and day 12 of your stay. There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. Exemptions from managed isolation are approved in very few circumstances. Applications for exemptions are considered on a case-by-case basis and the threshold for approval is very high. An exemption will only be approved where we can be confident that the health risk of transmission is very low. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply How to apply for an exemption from managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Almost all travellers are legally required to have a voucher confirming their place in managed isolation before boarding their flight. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. If you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to secure a voucher and complete 14 days in our managed isolation and quarantine facilities. By completing 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. Over 100,000 people have completed their managed isolation or quarantine stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. --- Section Separator --- When you arrive in New Zealand you are checked for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. --- Section Separator --- You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation or quarantine facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you are flying quarantine-free to New Zealand, then you will not enter managed isolation and so you do not need a voucher. Get your voucher by registering on the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- Managed Isolation and Quarantine has introducing a ‘cohorting’ system to its facilities. Cohorting is also known as ‘group intake’. Cohorting means that returnees arriving in New Zealand in a 96-hour window will all go to the same facility. They will do this until the facility is full or the 96 hours are over. After this, no more returnees will enter the facility until the last of the group has completed their stay and the facility has been cleaned. Cohorting will keep recent arrivals in the same facility together, and will keep those who are just completing their stay away from new arrivals. Doing this reduces the risk of transmitting COVID-19 inside the facilities. Special purpose facilities will not use cohorting, for example Jet Park, which is a quarantine facility. --- Section Separator --- You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in managed isolation or quarantine. The Government recovers some of the costs for managed isolation. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for managed isolation and who needs to pay (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people will be tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of their stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You may be asked to remain in your room until the result of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight into a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your managed isolation facility to complete the rest of your stay. You will be tested for COVID-19 again around day 3 and day 12 of your stay. --- Section Separator --- There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. Exemptions from managed isolation are approved in very few circumstances. Applications for exemptions are considered on a case-by-case basis and the threshold for approval is very high. An exemption will only be approved where we can be confident that the health risk of transmission is very low. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply How to apply for an exemption from managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Survey of New Zealand Arrivals --- Section Separator --- Get the results for arrivals from 1 August 2020 to 9 January 2021 We are undertaking a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals is collecting information to help inform government policy. It does not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) The COVID-19 Group, which is part of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) are leading the survey. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd has been contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. You will be invited to do the survey if you’ve recently arrived in New Zealand and you’re 18 or over. You will be contacted by email. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you are a recent arrival to New Zealand. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd will be given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. They will hold your contact details for up to 4 months, before deleting them. You can choose if you want to complete the survey, and you can withdraw at any time without having to give a reason. The survey will take about 12 minutes to complete, and you can do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. You do not need to prepare anything before you complete the survey. If you’re having trouble getting the survey link to open, or having other technical difficulties, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz Your answers will be combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agree to take part in further research, your contact details will be sent to the research team at MBIE. The information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after they have sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) You can request a copy of your survey answers. You can also ask for them to be corrected, but you need to do this in the same calendar month that you complete the survey. Request a copy of your answers by emailing Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz MBIE has published the provisional results for arrivals into New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 9 January 2021. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collects data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border closures. Results from Survey of New Zealand Arrivals for 1 August 2020 to 9 January 2021 [PDF, 895 KB] MBIE will publish the survey results for those people arriving between 10 January and 14 April 2021 when it’s available. --- Section Separator --- Get the results for arrivals from 1 August 2020 to 9 January 2021 --- Section Separator --- We are undertaking a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals is collecting information to help inform government policy. It does not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Group, which is part of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) are leading the survey. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd has been contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. --- Section Separator --- You will be invited to do the survey if you’ve recently arrived in New Zealand and you’re 18 or over. You will be contacted by email. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you are a recent arrival to New Zealand. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd will be given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. They will hold your contact details for up to 4 months, before deleting them. You can choose if you want to complete the survey, and you can withdraw at any time without having to give a reason. --- Section Separator --- The survey will take about 12 minutes to complete, and you can do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. You do not need to prepare anything before you complete the survey. If you’re having trouble getting the survey link to open, or having other technical difficulties, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz --- Section Separator --- Your answers will be combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agree to take part in further research, your contact details will be sent to the research team at MBIE. The information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after they have sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) You can request a copy of your survey answers. You can also ask for them to be corrected, but you need to do this in the same calendar month that you complete the survey. Request a copy of your answers by emailing Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz --- Section Separator --- If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- MBIE has published the provisional results for arrivals into New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 9 January 2021. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collects data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border closures. Results from Survey of New Zealand Arrivals for 1 August 2020 to 9 January 2021 [PDF, 895 KB] --- Section Separator --- MBIE will publish the survey results for those people arriving between 10 January and 14 April 2021 when it’s available. --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- To transit New Zealand, you must: meet 1 of the categories or exceptions that mean you do not need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa hold an NZeTA if you’re allowed to transit on an NZeTA, or hold a transit visa if you need to have a transit visa. You can transit through New Zealand for up to 24 hours. If you’re staying longer, you must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. Immigration NZ explains who can transit New Zealand without an NZeTA or transit visa, and who needs one. Who can transit New Zealand — Immigration NZ (external link) If you’re going to be transiting for longer than 72 hours, you’ll need a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. If you’re in New Zealand for longer than 72 hours, you’ll need to stay in managed isolation and will need to apply for an exemption. Before leaving managed isolation you’ll need to: get a negative COVID-19 test, and be confirmed as low risk of having or spreading COVID-19. If you are granted a transit exemption, you’ll be provided with transport to and from your managed isolation facility. The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) If you are transiting through New Zealand and you are staying airside, you do not need to get a pre-departure test. Staying airside means you stay in the airport and you do not go through Customs to enter New Zealand. If you are not staying airside while you’re transiting, you must get a pre-departure test. People from some countries do not need to get a pre-departure test. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- To transit New Zealand, you must: meet 1 of the categories or exceptions that mean you do not need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa hold an NZeTA if you’re allowed to transit on an NZeTA, or hold a transit visa if you need to have a transit visa. You can transit through New Zealand for up to 24 hours. If you’re staying longer, you must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. Immigration NZ explains who can transit New Zealand without an NZeTA or transit visa, and who needs one. Who can transit New Zealand — Immigration NZ (external link) If you’re going to be transiting for longer than 72 hours, you’ll need a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. --- Section Separator --- If you’re in New Zealand for longer than 72 hours, you’ll need to stay in managed isolation and will need to apply for an exemption. Before leaving managed isolation you’ll need to: get a negative COVID-19 test, and be confirmed as low risk of having or spreading COVID-19. If you are granted a transit exemption, you’ll be provided with transport to and from your managed isolation facility. --- Section Separator --- The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are transiting through New Zealand and you are staying airside, you do not need to get a pre-departure test. Staying airside means you stay in the airport and you do not go through Customs to enter New Zealand. If you are not staying airside while you’re transiting, you must get a pre-departure test. People from some countries do not need to get a pre-departure test. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Travel restrictions for very high risk countries --- Section Separator --- The Government has created a ‘very high risk’ country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Brazil India Pakistan Papua New Guinea Travellers to New Zealand from very high risk countries are temporarily restricted to: New Zealand citizens partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, or parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. Partners of New Zealand citizens can be a spouse, civil union partner or de facto partner. If you're a non-New Zealand citizen, you must hold a valid visa to enter New Zealand. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ (external link) All travellers from very high risk countries must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test result from a government-approved laboratory. The test must be taken within 72 hours of departure. The Ministry of Health publishes lists of laboratories in very high risk countries that are approved to conduct COVID-19 tests. Lists of approved laboratories (external link) All other travellers, including people holding residence class visas, must spend at least 14 days outside of very high risk countries before flying to New Zealand. You can transit through a very high risk country without having to spend 14 days outside the country before you travel to New Zealand. There is no limit on the amount of time you may spend transiting through a very high risk country, but you must remain airside. This means you'll remain at the airport and not enter the country. The Director-General of Health may grant exemptions for humanitarian reasons. You can find out more about the exemptions process at the Managed Isolation and Quarantine website. Apply for an exemption (external link) Countries have been designated very high risk where: there have been more than 50 cases of COVID-19 per 1,000 arrivals to New Zealand from those countries in 2021, and there are more than 15 travellers on average per month. Resurgence of COVID-19 is happening in a number of countries, and there are further waves of infections in many countries as new variants of the COVID-19 virus arise. This means New Zealand expects to see more returnees with COVID-19 from these areas. This increase in cases will place pressure on our managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) systems and workforce and increase the risk of a community outbreak. The New Zealand Government has responded by creating a very high risk country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The Government will review this decision regularly. If you're a New Zealander in a very high risk country, make sure you register your travel and contact details with SafeTravel. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) In the 14 days before leaving there are things you can do to help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it to New Zealand with you: Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. --- Section Separator --- The Government has created a ‘very high risk’ country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Brazil India Pakistan Papua New Guinea --- Section Separator --- Travellers to New Zealand from very high risk countries are temporarily restricted to: New Zealand citizens partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, or parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. Partners of New Zealand citizens can be a spouse, civil union partner or de facto partner. If you're a non-New Zealand citizen, you must hold a valid visa to enter New Zealand. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ (external link) All travellers from very high risk countries must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test result from a government-approved laboratory. The test must be taken within 72 hours of departure. The Ministry of Health publishes lists of laboratories in very high risk countries that are approved to conduct COVID-19 tests. Lists of approved laboratories (external link) All other travellers, including people holding residence class visas, must spend at least 14 days outside of very high risk countries before flying to New Zealand. You can transit through a very high risk country without having to spend 14 days outside the country before you travel to New Zealand. There is no limit on the amount of time you may spend transiting through a very high risk country, but you must remain airside. This means you'll remain at the airport and not enter the country. --- Section Separator --- The Director-General of Health may grant exemptions for humanitarian reasons. You can find out more about the exemptions process at the Managed Isolation and Quarantine website. Apply for an exemption (external link) --- Section Separator --- Countries have been designated very high risk where: there have been more than 50 cases of COVID-19 per 1,000 arrivals to New Zealand from those countries in 2021, and there are more than 15 travellers on average per month. --- Section Separator --- Resurgence of COVID-19 is happening in a number of countries, and there are further waves of infections in many countries as new variants of the COVID-19 virus arise. This means New Zealand expects to see more returnees with COVID-19 from these areas. This increase in cases will place pressure on our managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) systems and workforce and increase the risk of a community outbreak. The New Zealand Government has responded by creating a very high risk country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The Government will review this decision regularly. --- Section Separator --- If you're a New Zealander in a very high risk country, make sure you register your travel and contact details with SafeTravel. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) In the 14 days before leaving there are things you can do to help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it to New Zealand with you: Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. The travel restrictions apply to all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. Travel from very high risk countries is temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: India Brazil Papua New Guinea Pakistan Travel restrictions for very high risk countries You may be able to travel to New Zealand while the border is closed if we consider you have a critical purpose to travel. Critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Most people who are not New Zealand citizens or residents legally must get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to request to travel. Information from Immigration NZ: Immigration during COVID-19 (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements (external link) New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries. Travelling quarantine-free means you do not have to enter managed isolation. Normal immigration rules apply for quarantine-free travel. Travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from some countries There are exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector | health.govt.nz (external link) Most people must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test result before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to get pre-departure tests. Requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you’re returning to New Zealand, you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Who can request an emergency allocation and how to apply | miq.govt.nz (external link) Quarantine-free travel allows you to travel to and enter countries that are participating in a quarantine-free travel arrangement without needing to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive. You can travel to New Zealand quarantine-free from: Australia the Cook Islands Niue Quarantine-free travel International transit through New Zealand If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. The travel restrictions apply to all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. Travel from very high risk countries is temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: India Brazil Papua New Guinea Pakistan Travel restrictions for very high risk countries You may be able to travel to New Zealand while the border is closed if we consider you have a critical purpose to travel. Critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Most people who are not New Zealand citizens or residents legally must get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to request to travel. Information from Immigration NZ: Immigration during COVID-19 (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements (external link) New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries. Travelling quarantine-free means you do not have to enter managed isolation. Normal immigration rules apply for quarantine-free travel. Travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from some countries There are exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test result before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to get pre-departure tests. Requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you’re returning to New Zealand, you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Who can request an emergency allocation and how to apply | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel allows you to travel to and enter countries that are participating in a quarantine-free travel arrangement without needing to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive. You can travel to New Zealand quarantine-free from: Australia the Cook Islands Niue Quarantine-free travel --- Section Separator --- International transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel New Zealanders overseas --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. Travel from very high risk countries is temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: India, Brazil, Papua New Guinea and Pakistan. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa do not have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Our quarantine-free travel arrangements apply to the aviation (air) border only. Maritime (sea) borders are closed at this time. Quarantine-free travel There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Plan your travel to New Zealand It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you're in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. Travel from very high risk countries is temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: India, Brazil, Papua New Guinea and Pakistan. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa do not have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Our quarantine-free travel arrangements apply to the aviation (air) border only. Maritime (sea) borders are closed at this time. Quarantine-free travel There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Plan your travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you're in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel International travel and transit Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Domestic travel New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand Signs and posters for travelling safely
Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Information about travelling to New Zealand Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Quarantine-free travel with Australia Managed isolation and quarantine New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must have a negative pre-departure test result to enter New Zealand. Travellers from Australia are also now required to get pre-departure tests. If you have received a COVID-19 vaccination, you will still need to take a test. Do not use a free community testing station . Pre-departure testing and result certificates for travel clearance are provided by private pathology clinics. You need to have both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. --- Section Separator --- The Government has been monitoring overseas developments and is concerned about high rates of infection and new variants of the virus and their potential to spread more rapidly. Pre-departure tests reduce the risk of infected travellers on international flights infecting other travellers. --- Section Separator --- Answer these questions to find out if you need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Director-General of Health has confirmed the following types of test are acceptable for all countries — except Australia and very high risk countries: Nucleic Acid Amplification Testing (NAAT), which includes PCR, RT-PCR and TMA, or LAMP, or antigen test (they may also be referred to as viral antigen tests). Travellers from Australia are required to get PCR or RT-PCR pre-departure tests. Travellers from very high risk countries — Brazil, India, Pakistan and Papua New Guinea — must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test from an accredited laboratory. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries All tests (including at-home tests) must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. You are responsible for the costs of your tests. --- Section Separator --- You can get tested at a range of airports, or from private laboratories. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. You should approach a GP or private testing clinic — not a free community testing station . Make sure you check your chosen testing provider will provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the standard required by the New Zealand Government. You are responsible for meeting the costs of your test. All tests (including at-home tests) must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests.
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales and Queensland is paused. Quarantine-free travel from Queensland will resume at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July. You may be interested in Return green flights New South Wales Queensland Victoria Australian Capital Territory (ACT) Northern Territory South Australia Tasmania Western Australia Travel declaration for travelling quarantine-free to NZ How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales (NSW) remains paused . Travel from Queensland is paused , but will resume at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July. While return green flights from Queensland have started, they will discontinue once regular quarantine-free flights begin on Monday night. The Government is working towards managed return flights from NSW . These travellers will have to go into MIQ. Managed return flights from NSW Travel information for Queensland --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel to Australia What to do before you travel to NZ At the airport and travelling to Australia At the airport and travelling to NZ After you arrive in Australia After you arrive in NZ --- Section Separator --- Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) Continues From New Zealand to Australian Capital Territory (ACT): Continues Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New Zealand Continues From Australian Capital Territory (ACT) to New Zealand: Continues You can travel quarantine-free from the Australian Capital Territory (ACT) . A negative pre-departure test is required to enter New Zealand. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand New Zealand New South Wales Continues From New Zealand to New South Wales: Continues New South Wales New Zealand Paused From New South Wales to New Zealand: Paused Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales remains paused . The Government is working to begin managed return flights from NSW from Tuesday 13 July. New Zealand Northern Territory Continues From New Zealand to Northern Territory: Continues Northern Territory New Zealand Continues From Northern Territory to New Zealand: Continues You can travel quarantine-free from Northern Territory. A negative pre-departure test is required to enter New Zealand. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand New Zealand Queensland Continues From New Zealand to Queensland: Continues Queensland New Zealand Paused From Queensland to New Zealand: Paused Quarantine-free travel from Queensland remains paused . It will resume at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July. New Zealand South Australia Continues From New Zealand to South Australia: Continues South Australia New Zealand Continues From South Australia to New Zealand: Continues You can travel quarantine-free from South Australia . A negative pre-departure test is required to enter New Zealand. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand New Zealand Tasmania Continues From New Zealand to Tasmania: Continues Tasmania New Zealand Continues From Tasmania to New Zealand: Continues You can travel quarantine-free from Tasmania . A negative pre-departure test is required to enter New Zealand. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand New Zealand Victoria Continues From New Zealand to Victoria: Continues Victoria New Zealand Continues From Victoria to New Zealand: Continues You can travel quarantine-free from Victoria. A negative pre-departure test is required to enter New Zealand. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand New Zealand Western Australia Continues From New Zealand to Western Australia: Continues Western Australia New Zealand Continues From Western Australia to New Zealand: Continues You can travel quarantine-free travel from Western Australia. A negative pre-departure test is required to enter New Zealand. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia Australian Capital Territory (ACT) --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from ACT, Northern Territory, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia . You cannot travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight from anywhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit through New South Wales or Queensland by air or land to get to New Zealand. You'll need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours. Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales and Queensland remains paused . Pre-departure test requirements Quarantine-free travel from ACT to New Zealand continues. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to ACT continues. There are no locations of interest in ACT. Locations of interest in Australia If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Currently you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales or Queensland by air or land. When quarantine-free travel from Queensland resumes at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July , you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales by air or land. You must get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours . This excludes those on managed return flights from NSW. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia You should regularly check and follow the health advice for the state you're in: Australia Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Register your travel at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) If you were at a location of interest anywhere in Australia at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. You will be asked to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate in your home or accommodation for the time advised by Healthline. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from ACT, Northern Territory, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia . You cannot travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight from anywhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit through New South Wales or Queensland by air or land to get to New Zealand. You'll need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours. Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales and Queensland remains paused . Pre-departure test requirements --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from ACT to New Zealand continues. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to ACT continues. --- Section Separator --- There are no locations of interest in ACT. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Currently you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales or Queensland by air or land. When quarantine-free travel from Queensland resumes at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July , you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales by air or land. You must get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours . This excludes those on managed return flights from NSW. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia You should regularly check and follow the health advice for the state you're in: Australia Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Register your travel at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you were at a location of interest anywhere in Australia at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. You will be asked to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate in your home or accommodation for the time advised by Healthline. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- Australia New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed Cook Islands Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed --- Section Separator --- When travelling to Australia, you’ll need to keep track of the COVID-19 situation and play your part in stopping any spread back to New Zealand. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we’d handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, such as timing and location, it’s useful to know what to expect. This is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. For example, case linked to the border — there is low risk of further transmission. Flights to and from Australia likely to continue. Follow local health instructions. Keep a record of your movements. If you’re unwell, stay home or in your accommodation. Get a COVID-19 test if you have any symptoms. For example, case of unknown source, but most likely linked to the border. State enters a short-term lockdown. Flights to and from affected state or states may be paused for up to 72 hours. Follow instructions from the state you're in. If you're unwell or have symptoms, get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline, and check your travel insurance. When returning to New Zealand, travellers from affected state may be asked to: get a pre-departure test before flying self-isolate and get a COVID-19 test if you are returning from a state where travel has been paused, you may go into managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand. For example, multiple cases of unknown source. State enters longer-term lockdown. Flights to and from affected state or states may be suspended for an extended period. Follow instructions from the state you're in. If you're unwell or have symptoms, get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline, and check your travel insurance. When returning to New Zealand, travellers may be asked to: get a pre-departure test before flying self-isolate and get a COVID-19 test if you are returning from a state where travel has been suspended, you may go into managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand. This guide may apply to one state or multiple states, depending on the case. Register with SafeTravel before you leave. Check your travel insurance and ticket conditions. You may need to stay longer. Be aware getting home is your responsibility. Follow official advice. Download a COVID-19 tracer app in the state you are in. Keep an eye on Covid19.govt.nz (this website). What to do when you arrive in Australia, including local COVID-19 websites and COVID-19 tracer apps How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed [PDF, 90 KB] --- Section Separator --- When travelling to Australia, you’ll need to keep track of the COVID-19 situation and play your part in stopping any spread back to New Zealand. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we’d handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, such as timing and location, it’s useful to know what to expect. This is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. --- Section Separator --- For example, case linked to the border — there is low risk of further transmission. Flights to and from Australia likely to continue. Follow local health instructions. Keep a record of your movements. If you’re unwell, stay home or in your accommodation. Get a COVID-19 test if you have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- For example, case of unknown source, but most likely linked to the border. State enters a short-term lockdown. Flights to and from affected state or states may be paused for up to 72 hours. Follow instructions from the state you're in. If you're unwell or have symptoms, get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline, and check your travel insurance. When returning to New Zealand, travellers from affected state may be asked to: get a pre-departure test before flying self-isolate and get a COVID-19 test if you are returning from a state where travel has been paused, you may go into managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- For example, multiple cases of unknown source. State enters longer-term lockdown. Flights to and from affected state or states may be suspended for an extended period. Follow instructions from the state you're in. If you're unwell or have symptoms, get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline, and check your travel insurance. When returning to New Zealand, travellers may be asked to: get a pre-departure test before flying self-isolate and get a COVID-19 test if you are returning from a state where travel has been suspended, you may go into managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- This guide may apply to one state or multiple states, depending on the case. Register with SafeTravel before you leave. Check your travel insurance and ticket conditions. You may need to stay longer. Be aware getting home is your responsibility. --- Section Separator --- Follow official advice. Download a COVID-19 tracer app in the state you are in. Keep an eye on Covid19.govt.nz (this website). What to do when you arrive in Australia, including local COVID-19 websites and COVID-19 tracer apps --- Section Separator --- How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed [PDF, 90 KB] --- Section Separator --- Australia New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed Cook Islands Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia New South Wales --- Section Separator --- If you normally reside in New Zealand and are currently stranded in New South Wales, the Government is working on an emergency plan to bring you home. Airlines have provided further advice about how passengers can book on to managed return flights. See "Booking a return flight to New Zealand". The Government has set-up a call centre for those who have an urgent or exceptional need to return to New Zealand. See "Support for stranded travellers". We have a plan to get everyone that is currently stranded in NSW back home, but not everyone can travel immediately. Initially, there will be approximately 1,000 rooms made available across the next two weeks, but not all rooms will be available immediately. We are also working on a plan to make more rooms available for NSW returnees after the initial two week emergency allocation. If you can safely stay in NSW, we encourage you to wait and allow those in most urgent need to book their return flights first. If you normally reside in Australia or want to transit through New Zealand to other countries, this plan is not for you. We ask that you allow those in emergency situations to book managed return flights first. The following people who are stranded in NSW are eligible for managed return flights: New Zealand citizens. New Zealand permanent residents or resident visa holders. Citizens of Australia or persons who hold current permanent residence visas (including a resident return visa) issued by the Government of Australia who last departed New Zealand after 5 April 2021. Holders of New Zealand temporary visas who last departed New Zealand after 5 April 2021. Spouses, civil union partners, de facto partners, dependent children or parents of dependent children of any of the above categories. The Government is working on criteria around travel for special or compassionate needs. More information about this will be made available at 10am on Monday 12 July 2021. Airlines will operate managed return flights from Sydney starting Tuesday 13 July. These will be commercial flights that will be permitted to operate subject to the number of spaces available in managed isolation facilities. After further consultation, airlines have provided more advice on how they will each managed return flight bookings. Flights available with Air New Zealand can be booked via their website www.airnewzealand.co.nz (external link) from 10:00 am NZT Monday, 12 July. Read more information about booking with Air New Zealand (external link) Qantas will reach out to customers with existing bookings from Sydney to New Zealand, and will provide a priority phone number from Monday 12 July. If you can safely stay in NSW, we encourage you to wait and allow those in most urgent need to return home first. If you are allocated a seat and no longer need it, please advise your airline as soon as possible so somebody else can use it. If you normally reside in Australia or want to transit through New Zealand to other countries, managed return flights are not for you. Please be patient with the airlines. They are working very hard to support the Government to bring you home. All returnees on managed return flights will be required to enter a managed isolation facility for 14 days upon arrival into New Zealand. You do not need to book a place in a managed isolation facility via the online booking system. You are automatically assigned a place in managed isolation once you are booked on a managed return flight. You do not need to do anything else to secure your place in a managed isolation facility. You will be tested at the managed isolation facility as per the usual protocols – at day 0 / 1, at day 3, and again at day 12. There will be no cost to stay in managed isolation in this instance. Please be patient with our MIQ staff. They are working hard to ensure the process operates as efficiently as possible under an emergency plan. As a returnee from New South Wales, you will not be required to provide a negative pre-departure test as you will be entering a managed isolation facility upon entering New Zealand. You are subject to penalties if you try to enter New Zealand by travelling from NSW via another Australian state. You will immediately be placed in a managed isolation facility and undergo regular COVID-19 testing. You will be charged for your stay in the managed isolation facility — Learn more about MIQ costs (external link) You may also be fined up to $1,000. Follow our emergency plan and adhere to all health and travel advice to ensure you are not charged. Read more in the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Order (No 2) 2020 (external link) Read more about the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Exemptions and Conditions for Quarantine-free Travel) Notice 2021 (external link) The Government has set up a call centre for travellers with an urgent or exceptional need to return to New Zealand. You can contact the call centre and explain your situation for further guidance. You will need to meet one of the following eligibility criteria: There is a serious risk to health or safety for the applicant or their dependant, which requires urgent travel to New Zealand. Urgent travel is required to ensure a child is provided with appropriate care and protection. Urgent travel is required to provide critical care for a dependent person in New Zealand and need to travel urgently to do so The person has a serious medical condition that requires treatment or support back in New Zealand The person will suffer significant financial hardship if they are not able to return to New Zealand. Compassionate grounds, such as visiting close relatives who are in critical medical condition. You must also meet one of the following immigration requirements: New Zealand citizens and holders of New Zealand residence class visas Citizens of Australia or people who hold current permanent residence visas (including a resident return visa) issued by the Government of Australia who last departed New Zealand on or after 5 April 2021 Temporary visa holders who last departed New Zealand on or after 5 April 2021 Spouses, civil union partners, de facto partners, dependent children, or parents of dependent children of any of the above categories. Partners or dependants who travelled with the eligible traveller to NSW and who wish to return with them to New Zealand will also be allowed to travel on a managed return flight. If eligible, you will be asked to fill in an application for exceptional and urgent travel. Monday – Friday 10:00am – 10:00pm (NZT) / 8:00am – 8:00pm (NSW time). +64 4 439 8235 If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Currently you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales or Queensland by air or land. When quarantine-free travel from Queensland resumes at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July , you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales by air or land. You must get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours . This excludes those on managed return flights from NSW. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia You should regularly check and follow the health advice for the state you're in: Australia Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Register your travel at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you normally reside in New Zealand and are currently stranded in New South Wales, the Government is working on an emergency plan to bring you home. Airlines have provided further advice about how passengers can book on to managed return flights. See "Booking a return flight to New Zealand". The Government has set-up a call centre for those who have an urgent or exceptional need to return to New Zealand. See "Support for stranded travellers". --- Section Separator --- We have a plan to get everyone that is currently stranded in NSW back home, but not everyone can travel immediately. Initially, there will be approximately 1,000 rooms made available across the next two weeks, but not all rooms will be available immediately. We are also working on a plan to make more rooms available for NSW returnees after the initial two week emergency allocation. If you can safely stay in NSW, we encourage you to wait and allow those in most urgent need to book their return flights first. If you normally reside in Australia or want to transit through New Zealand to other countries, this plan is not for you. We ask that you allow those in emergency situations to book managed return flights first. --- Section Separator --- The following people who are stranded in NSW are eligible for managed return flights: New Zealand citizens. New Zealand permanent residents or resident visa holders. Citizens of Australia or persons who hold current permanent residence visas (including a resident return visa) issued by the Government of Australia who last departed New Zealand after 5 April 2021. Holders of New Zealand temporary visas who last departed New Zealand after 5 April 2021. Spouses, civil union partners, de facto partners, dependent children or parents of dependent children of any of the above categories. The Government is working on criteria around travel for special or compassionate needs. More information about this will be made available at 10am on Monday 12 July 2021. --- Section Separator --- Airlines will operate managed return flights from Sydney starting Tuesday 13 July. These will be commercial flights that will be permitted to operate subject to the number of spaces available in managed isolation facilities. After further consultation, airlines have provided more advice on how they will each managed return flight bookings. Flights available with Air New Zealand can be booked via their website www.airnewzealand.co.nz (external link) from 10:00 am NZT Monday, 12 July. Read more information about booking with Air New Zealand (external link) Qantas will reach out to customers with existing bookings from Sydney to New Zealand, and will provide a priority phone number from Monday 12 July. --- Section Separator --- If you can safely stay in NSW, we encourage you to wait and allow those in most urgent need to return home first. If you are allocated a seat and no longer need it, please advise your airline as soon as possible so somebody else can use it. If you normally reside in Australia or want to transit through New Zealand to other countries, managed return flights are not for you. Please be patient with the airlines. They are working very hard to support the Government to bring you home. --- Section Separator --- All returnees on managed return flights will be required to enter a managed isolation facility for 14 days upon arrival into New Zealand. You do not need to book a place in a managed isolation facility via the online booking system. You are automatically assigned a place in managed isolation once you are booked on a managed return flight. You do not need to do anything else to secure your place in a managed isolation facility. You will be tested at the managed isolation facility as per the usual protocols – at day 0 / 1, at day 3, and again at day 12. There will be no cost to stay in managed isolation in this instance. Please be patient with our MIQ staff. They are working hard to ensure the process operates as efficiently as possible under an emergency plan. --- Section Separator --- As a returnee from New South Wales, you will not be required to provide a negative pre-departure test as you will be entering a managed isolation facility upon entering New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- You are subject to penalties if you try to enter New Zealand by travelling from NSW via another Australian state. You will immediately be placed in a managed isolation facility and undergo regular COVID-19 testing. You will be charged for your stay in the managed isolation facility — Learn more about MIQ costs (external link) You may also be fined up to $1,000. Follow our emergency plan and adhere to all health and travel advice to ensure you are not charged. Read more in the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Order (No 2) 2020 (external link) Read more about the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Exemptions and Conditions for Quarantine-free Travel) Notice 2021 (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Government has set up a call centre for travellers with an urgent or exceptional need to return to New Zealand. You can contact the call centre and explain your situation for further guidance. You will need to meet one of the following eligibility criteria: There is a serious risk to health or safety for the applicant or their dependant, which requires urgent travel to New Zealand. Urgent travel is required to ensure a child is provided with appropriate care and protection. Urgent travel is required to provide critical care for a dependent person in New Zealand and need to travel urgently to do so The person has a serious medical condition that requires treatment or support back in New Zealand The person will suffer significant financial hardship if they are not able to return to New Zealand. Compassionate grounds, such as visiting close relatives who are in critical medical condition. You must also meet one of the following immigration requirements: New Zealand citizens and holders of New Zealand residence class visas Citizens of Australia or people who hold current permanent residence visas (including a resident return visa) issued by the Government of Australia who last departed New Zealand on or after 5 April 2021 Temporary visa holders who last departed New Zealand on or after 5 April 2021 Spouses, civil union partners, de facto partners, dependent children, or parents of dependent children of any of the above categories. Partners or dependants who travelled with the eligible traveller to NSW and who wish to return with them to New Zealand will also be allowed to travel on a managed return flight. If eligible, you will be asked to fill in an application for exceptional and urgent travel. Monday – Friday 10:00am – 10:00pm (NZT) / 8:00am – 8:00pm (NSW time). +64 4 439 8235 --- Section Separator --- If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Currently you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales or Queensland by air or land. When quarantine-free travel from Queensland resumes at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July , you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales by air or land. You must get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours . This excludes those on managed return flights from NSW. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia You should regularly check and follow the health advice for the state you're in: Australia Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Register your travel at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Australia New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed Cook Islands Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia Northern Territory --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from ACT, Northern Territory, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia . You cannot travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight from anywhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit through New South Wales or Queensland by air or land to get to New Zealand. You'll need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours. Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales and Queensland remains paused . Pre-departure test requirements Quarantine-free travel from Northern Territory to New Zealand continues. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Northern Territory continues. There are locations of interest in Northern Territory. Locations of interest in Australia If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Currently you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales or Queensland by air or land. When quarantine-free travel from Queensland resumes at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July , you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales by air or land. You must get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours . This excludes those on managed return flights from NSW. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia You should regularly check and follow the health advice for the state you're in: Australia Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Register your travel at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) If you were at a location of interest anywhere in Australia at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. You will be asked to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate in your home or accommodation for the time advised by Healthline. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from ACT, Northern Territory, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia . You cannot travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight from anywhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit through New South Wales or Queensland by air or land to get to New Zealand. You'll need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours. Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales and Queensland remains paused . Pre-departure test requirements --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from Northern Territory to New Zealand continues. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Northern Territory continues. --- Section Separator --- There are locations of interest in Northern Territory. Locations of interest in Australia If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. --- Section Separator --- If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Currently you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales or Queensland by air or land. When quarantine-free travel from Queensland resumes at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July , you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales by air or land. You must get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours . This excludes those on managed return flights from NSW. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia You should regularly check and follow the health advice for the state you're in: Australia Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Register your travel at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you were at a location of interest anywhere in Australia at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. You will be asked to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate in your home or accommodation for the time advised by Healthline. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- Australia New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed Cook Islands Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia Queensland --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from Queensland remains paused , but it will resume at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July. While return green flights from Queensland have started, they will discontinue once regular quarantine-free flights begin again. Locations of interest in Australia (external link) Return green flights from Queensland Quarantine-free travel from Queensland to New Zealand is paused . It will resume at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Queensland continues. If you were at a location of interest anywhere in Australia at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. You will be asked to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate in your home or accommodation for the time advised by Healthline. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. Locations of interest in Australia You must complete a travel declaration if you want to enter Queensland from anywhere in New Zealand or Australia. This is to reduce the risk of COVID-19 spreading in Queensland. Everyone must complete a declaration — including Queensland residents. There are 2 types of declaration. Make sure you complete the right one for your circumstances, and that you check when you need to complete it by. Complete the Queensland travel declaration (external link) There are locations of interest in Queensland. Locations of interest in Australia If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Currently you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales or Queensland by air or land. When quarantine-free travel from Queensland resumes at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July , you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales by air or land. You must get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours . This excludes those on managed return flights from NSW. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia You should regularly check and follow the health advice for the state you're in: Australia Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Register your travel at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from Queensland remains paused , but it will resume at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July. While return green flights from Queensland have started, they will discontinue once regular quarantine-free flights begin again. Locations of interest in Australia (external link) Return green flights from Queensland --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from Queensland to New Zealand is paused . It will resume at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Queensland continues. --- Section Separator --- If you were at a location of interest anywhere in Australia at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. You will be asked to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate in your home or accommodation for the time advised by Healthline. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- You must complete a travel declaration if you want to enter Queensland from anywhere in New Zealand or Australia. This is to reduce the risk of COVID-19 spreading in Queensland. Everyone must complete a declaration — including Queensland residents. There are 2 types of declaration. Make sure you complete the right one for your circumstances, and that you check when you need to complete it by. Complete the Queensland travel declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are locations of interest in Queensland. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Currently you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales or Queensland by air or land. When quarantine-free travel from Queensland resumes at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July , you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales by air or land. You must get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours . This excludes those on managed return flights from NSW. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia You should regularly check and follow the health advice for the state you're in: Australia Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Register your travel at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Australia New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed Cook Islands Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia Return green flights from Australia --- Section Separator --- This page is about return flights from Queensland. Information about managed return flights from New South Wales Return green flights are flying from Queensland. Anyone who is eligible can travel to New Zealand on return green flights, meaning you will not be required to isolate when you arrive in New Zealand. The following people are eligible: New Zealand citizens. New Zealand permanent residents or resident visa holders. Citizens of Australia or persons who hold current permanent residence visas (including a resident return visa) issued by the Government of Australia who last departed New Zealand after 5 April 2021. Holders of New Zealand temporary visas who last departed New Zealand after 5 April 2021. Spouses, civil union partners, de facto partners, dependent children or parents of dependent children of any of the above categories. When the travel pause is lifted, regular quarantine-free flights will resume. If you were at a location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from any border in Australia within 14 days of being at the location of interest — even if you have a negative COVID-19 test. You cannot board a return green flight. You must: have a negative PCR or RT-PCR pre-departure test taken no more than 72 hours before your first international flight complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration complete the health declaration at the airport to confirm you did not visit a location of interest in the last 14 days not have COVID-19 symptoms not be waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Pre-departure testing to enter New Zealand Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) (external link) Locations of interest in Australia These are commercially operated flights. Please contact airlines to book your flight. You will need to pay the cost of your flight. If you want to transfer an existing ticket, you need to speak with your airline. You must wear a face covering throughout your entire journey. You do not need to go into managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand on a return green flight. Try to book private transport to get to your home or accommodation. If you're using public transport, make sure you wear a face covering. Continue monitoring your health for any symptoms of COVID-19 for 7 days after you arrive back in New Zealand. If you feel unwell, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your GP for advice. Remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app to help with contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- This page is about return flights from Queensland. Information about managed return flights from New South Wales --- Section Separator --- Return green flights are flying from Queensland. Anyone who is eligible can travel to New Zealand on return green flights, meaning you will not be required to isolate when you arrive in New Zealand. The following people are eligible: New Zealand citizens. New Zealand permanent residents or resident visa holders. Citizens of Australia or persons who hold current permanent residence visas (including a resident return visa) issued by the Government of Australia who last departed New Zealand after 5 April 2021. Holders of New Zealand temporary visas who last departed New Zealand after 5 April 2021. Spouses, civil union partners, de facto partners, dependent children or parents of dependent children of any of the above categories. When the travel pause is lifted, regular quarantine-free flights will resume. If you were at a location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from any border in Australia within 14 days of being at the location of interest — even if you have a negative COVID-19 test. You cannot board a return green flight. --- Section Separator --- You must: have a negative PCR or RT-PCR pre-departure test taken no more than 72 hours before your first international flight complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration complete the health declaration at the airport to confirm you did not visit a location of interest in the last 14 days not have COVID-19 symptoms not be waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Pre-departure testing to enter New Zealand Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) (external link) Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- These are commercially operated flights. Please contact airlines to book your flight. You will need to pay the cost of your flight. If you want to transfer an existing ticket, you need to speak with your airline. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face covering throughout your entire journey. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to go into managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand on a return green flight. Try to book private transport to get to your home or accommodation. If you're using public transport, make sure you wear a face covering. Continue monitoring your health for any symptoms of COVID-19 for 7 days after you arrive back in New Zealand. If you feel unwell, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your GP for advice. Remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app to help with contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- Australia New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed Cook Islands Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia South Australia --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from ACT, Northern Territory, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia . You cannot travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight from anywhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit through New South Wales or Queensland by air or land to get to New Zealand. You'll need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours. Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales and Queensland remains paused . Pre-departure test requirements Quarantine-free travel from South Australia to New Zealand continues. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to South Australia continues. There are no locations of interest in South Australia. Locations of interest in Australia If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Currently you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales or Queensland by air or land. When quarantine-free travel from Queensland resumes at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July , you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales by air or land. You must get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours . This excludes those on managed return flights from NSW. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia You should regularly check and follow the health advice for the state you're in: Australia Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Register your travel at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) If you were at a location of interest anywhere in Australia at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. You will be asked to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate in your home or accommodation for the time advised by Healthline. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from ACT, Northern Territory, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia . You cannot travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight from anywhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit through New South Wales or Queensland by air or land to get to New Zealand. You'll need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours. Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales and Queensland remains paused . Pre-departure test requirements --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from South Australia to New Zealand continues. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to South Australia continues. --- Section Separator --- There are no locations of interest in South Australia. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Currently you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales or Queensland by air or land. When quarantine-free travel from Queensland resumes at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July , you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales by air or land. You must get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours . This excludes those on managed return flights from NSW. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia You should regularly check and follow the health advice for the state you're in: Australia Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Register your travel at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you were at a location of interest anywhere in Australia at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. You will be asked to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate in your home or accommodation for the time advised by Healthline. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- Australia New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed Cook Islands Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia Tasmania --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from ACT, Northern Territory, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia . You cannot travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight from anywhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit through New South Wales or Queensland by air or land to get to New Zealand. You'll need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours. Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales and Queensland remains paused . Pre-departure test requirements Quarantine-free travel from Tasmania to New Zealand continues. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Tasmania continues. There are no locations of interest in Tasmania. Locations of interest in Australia If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Currently you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales or Queensland by air or land. When quarantine-free travel from Queensland resumes at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July , you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales by air or land. You must get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours . This excludes those on managed return flights from NSW. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia You should regularly check and follow the health advice for the state you're in: Australia Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Register your travel at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) If you were at a location of interest anywhere in Australia at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. You will be asked to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate in your home or accommodation for the time advised by Healthline. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from ACT, Northern Territory, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia . You cannot travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight from anywhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit through New South Wales or Queensland by air or land to get to New Zealand. You'll need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours. Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales and Queensland remains paused . Pre-departure test requirements --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from Tasmania to New Zealand continues. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Tasmania continues. --- Section Separator --- There are no locations of interest in Tasmania. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Currently you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales or Queensland by air or land. When quarantine-free travel from Queensland resumes at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July , you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales by air or land. You must get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours . This excludes those on managed return flights from NSW. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia You should regularly check and follow the health advice for the state you're in: Australia Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Register your travel at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you were at a location of interest anywhere in Australia at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. You will be asked to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate in your home or accommodation for the time advised by Healthline. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- Australia New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed Cook Islands Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia Australia to New Zealand After you arrive --- Section Separator --- While you’re here in Aotearoa New Zealand, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. We strongly encourage travellers from Australia to understand how New Zealand is responding to COVID-19, and the rules and techniques we use to keep each other safe. You can find information on this website. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you’ve visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. There will be a QR code at the airport that you can scan to get the app. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. This means you can receive an alert through the app if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. If you register your contact details in the app, health authorities can contact you if you may have been exposed. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of the 3 Ws: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, most ferries (except the Cook Strait ferry) and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you’re offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you're helping keep everyone safe. COVID-19 symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell muscle aches. COVID-19 symptoms New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to any quarantine-free travel arrangement being paused for a time. The New Zealand Government may pause it while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Talk to your travel insurer about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption or illness. Have a plan for what to do if your return to Australia is delayed. You may need to be prepared for a longer stay in New Zealand than you planned. You may need to meet any costs for this — check with your travel insurer. You should also be prepared for the possibility of entering managed isolation or self-isolation on your return to Australia. Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check them regularly for updates that may affect you. Follow our social media Check with your airline for any changes to your travel conditions. Check Smartraveller.gov.au for information about travelling safely and what to do if you need help while in New Zealand. Smartraveller.gov.au (external link) If you're travelling back to Australia, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Even if you are an Australian citizen or permanent resident, you still must complete the travel declaration before you depart New Zealand. What to do before you travel from New Zealand to Australia What to do before you travel At the airport, while travelling and at the airport in New Zealand What to do after you arrive in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- While you’re here in Aotearoa New Zealand, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. We strongly encourage travellers from Australia to understand how New Zealand is responding to COVID-19, and the rules and techniques we use to keep each other safe. You can find information on this website. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. --- Section Separator --- Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you’ve visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. There will be a QR code at the airport that you can scan to get the app. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. This means you can receive an alert through the app if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. If you register your contact details in the app, health authorities can contact you if you may have been exposed. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of the 3 Ws: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, most ferries (except the Cook Strait ferry) and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you’re offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you're helping keep everyone safe. COVID-19 symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell muscle aches. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to any quarantine-free travel arrangement being paused for a time. The New Zealand Government may pause it while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Talk to your travel insurer about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption or illness. Have a plan for what to do if your return to Australia is delayed. You may need to be prepared for a longer stay in New Zealand than you planned. You may need to meet any costs for this — check with your travel insurer. You should also be prepared for the possibility of entering managed isolation or self-isolation on your return to Australia. --- Section Separator --- Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check them regularly for updates that may affect you. Follow our social media Check with your airline for any changes to your travel conditions. Check Smartraveller.gov.au for information about travelling safely and what to do if you need help while in New Zealand. Smartraveller.gov.au (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you're travelling back to Australia, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Even if you are an Australian citizen or permanent resident, you still must complete the travel declaration before you depart New Zealand. What to do before you travel from New Zealand to Australia --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel At the airport, while travelling and at the airport in New Zealand What to do after you arrive in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel Australia Cook Islands Niue Australia Cook Islands Niue International travel and transit Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Domestic travel New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand Signs and posters for travelling safely
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia Australia to New Zealand At the airport and travelling --- Section Separator --- You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. You will be asked these questions at the check-in kiosk. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a sore throat shortness of breath a runny nose loss of sense of smell, or a fever. If you are unwell, stay at home and call a doctor for advice. Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the online travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart Australia. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — please use Google Chrome or another browser. Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight to New Zealand, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in New Zealand, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You may need to go into a managed isolation facility. If you do, you may need to pay for your stay there. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand All travellers from quarantine-free flights, or ‘green flights’, will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you’re in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We strongly encourage travellers from Australia to understand how New Zealand is responding to COVID-19, and the rules and techniques we use to keep each other safe. You can find information on this website. About New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert system New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You’ll need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. What to do before you travel At the airport, while travelling and at the airport in New Zealand What to do after you arrive in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. You will be asked these questions at the check-in kiosk. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a sore throat shortness of breath a runny nose loss of sense of smell, or a fever. If you are unwell, stay at home and call a doctor for advice. Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the online travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart Australia. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — please use Google Chrome or another browser. Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) --- Section Separator --- Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight to New Zealand, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in New Zealand, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You may need to go into a managed isolation facility. If you do, you may need to pay for your stay there. --- Section Separator --- You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand All travellers from quarantine-free flights, or ‘green flights’, will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you’re in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We strongly encourage travellers from Australia to understand how New Zealand is responding to COVID-19, and the rules and techniques we use to keep each other safe. You can find information on this website. About New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert system New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You’ll need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel At the airport, while travelling and at the airport in New Zealand What to do after you arrive in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel Australia Cook Islands Niue Australia Cook Islands Niue International travel and transit Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Domestic travel New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand Signs and posters for travelling safely
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia Australia to New Zealand What to do before you travel --- Section Separator --- You can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You need to have spent the 14 full days before your date of departure in either Australia or New Zealand. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. All other normal entry requirements apply, for example immigration and biosecurity. Quarantine-free travel is only available when the New Zealand Government’s health preconditions have been met and when travel is low risk. Quarantine-free flights are sometimes called ‘green flights’. A green flight coming to New Zealand from Australia only carries passengers who have been in Australia or New Zealand in the past 14 days. These flights will also be flown by crew who have not flown on any high-risk routes for a set period of time. A ‘red flight’ carries passengers from countries outside of a quarantine-free travel arrangement, or from within a quarantine-free area with passengers that do not meet the eligibility criteria. Red flight passengers must enter managed isolation or quarantine when they arrive in New Zealand. It will not be possible to book a red flight from Australia to New Zealand from 19 April. Every flight from Australia to New Zealand from that time will be a green flight. Some airlines are continuing to operate red flights from other countries that transit Australia en route to New Zealand. When quarantine-free travel to New Zealand begins, people in Australia who meet the eligibility criteria can fly quarantine-free to New Zealand. If you’re outside Australia, you can fly quarantine-free to New Zealand once you have met Australia’s managed isolation and quarantine requirements. You will also need to meet immigration rules and eligibility criteria. Currently, quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Australian and New Zealand citizens may travel between Australia and New Zealand without a visa or New Zealand electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). All other travellers must hold a visa or NZeTA. Some people can travel to New Zealand without a visa if they get an NZeTA before they travel. You can travel to New Zealand on an NZeTA if you are travelling on a passport from a visa waiver country, you're a cruise ship passenger or you're a permanent resident of Australia. You must request your NZeTA before you travel. Request an NZeTA (external link) Citizens from other countries can also apply for a visa to enter New Zealand. Visas to enter New Zealand from Australia (external link) If you require a visa in order to travel to New Zealand, you can apply for one, provided you are in and intend to travel from a quarantine-free travel area when you apply. For example, if you intend to travel directly to New Zealand from the Cook Islands, you must be in the Cook Islands to apply for a visa under normal immigration requirements. Any visa granted for travel from within a quarantine-free travel area will only be valid for travel from within the quarantine-free travel area. If you travel outside of New Zealand or a quarantine-free travel area you will not be able to use this visa to re-enter New Zealand. For example, if you are granted a visa in Australia and then travel to Fiji, your visa will not allow you to re-enter New Zealand from Fiji. Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales and Queensland remains paused . You can travel quarantine-free from all other states and territories. Return green flights have started for travellers stranded in Queensland. If you normally reside in New Zealand and are currently stranded in New South Wales, the Government is working on an emergency plan to bring you home. You cannot travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight from anywhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. Negative pre-departure tests are required to enter New Zealand. Travellers on managed return flights from NSW do not need pre-departure tests. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Managed return flights from NSW Return green flights from Queensland Quarantine-free travel with Australia To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You meet immigration requirements. You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either Australia or New Zealand. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You must have a negative pre-departure test taken no more than 72 hours before you depart on your first international flight (see information below). You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). Travellers from Australia must get PCR or RT-PCR pre-departure tests. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from Australia. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed on their behalf. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. You will be asked these questions at the check-in kiosk. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. The COVID-19 symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a sore throat shortness of breath a runny nose loss of sense of smell, or a fever. Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to Australia is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You may also need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to Australia. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If you're about to return to New Zealand from Australia and the COVID-19 situation changes, you may need to enter managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from Australia, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in New Zealand if required. You need to ensure you can meet the entry criteria for Australia on your return. Immigration information at Department of Home Affairs — Australian Government (external link) If there is a change in Alert Level in New Zealand or the situation changes in Australia, Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and news websites will announce it. You can also find information on this website about what to do at different Alert Levels. If community cases occur in New Zealand or Australia, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. Once quarantine-free travel begins, you will not be able to register for a voucher or book a place in MIQ. Quarantine-free flights will be excluded from the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you already have an MIQ booking and you are now travelling on a quarantine-free flight into New Zealand, please cancel your voucher. This frees up space for returnees from other countries. If you are not sure if your flight is quarantine free, talk to your airline. What to do before you travel At the airport, while travelling and at the airport in New Zealand What to do after you arrive in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You need to have spent the 14 full days before your date of departure in either Australia or New Zealand. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. All other normal entry requirements apply, for example immigration and biosecurity. Quarantine-free travel is only available when the New Zealand Government’s health preconditions have been met and when travel is low risk. Quarantine-free flights are sometimes called ‘green flights’. A green flight coming to New Zealand from Australia only carries passengers who have been in Australia or New Zealand in the past 14 days. These flights will also be flown by crew who have not flown on any high-risk routes for a set period of time. A ‘red flight’ carries passengers from countries outside of a quarantine-free travel arrangement, or from within a quarantine-free area with passengers that do not meet the eligibility criteria. Red flight passengers must enter managed isolation or quarantine when they arrive in New Zealand. It will not be possible to book a red flight from Australia to New Zealand from 19 April. Every flight from Australia to New Zealand from that time will be a green flight. Some airlines are continuing to operate red flights from other countries that transit Australia en route to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- When quarantine-free travel to New Zealand begins, people in Australia who meet the eligibility criteria can fly quarantine-free to New Zealand. If you’re outside Australia, you can fly quarantine-free to New Zealand once you have met Australia’s managed isolation and quarantine requirements. You will also need to meet immigration rules and eligibility criteria. Currently, quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Australian and New Zealand citizens may travel between Australia and New Zealand without a visa or New Zealand electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). All other travellers must hold a visa or NZeTA. Some people can travel to New Zealand without a visa if they get an NZeTA before they travel. You can travel to New Zealand on an NZeTA if you are travelling on a passport from a visa waiver country, you're a cruise ship passenger or you're a permanent resident of Australia. You must request your NZeTA before you travel. Request an NZeTA (external link) Citizens from other countries can also apply for a visa to enter New Zealand. Visas to enter New Zealand from Australia (external link) If you require a visa in order to travel to New Zealand, you can apply for one, provided you are in and intend to travel from a quarantine-free travel area when you apply. For example, if you intend to travel directly to New Zealand from the Cook Islands, you must be in the Cook Islands to apply for a visa under normal immigration requirements. Any visa granted for travel from within a quarantine-free travel area will only be valid for travel from within the quarantine-free travel area. If you travel outside of New Zealand or a quarantine-free travel area you will not be able to use this visa to re-enter New Zealand. For example, if you are granted a visa in Australia and then travel to Fiji, your visa will not allow you to re-enter New Zealand from Fiji. --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales and Queensland remains paused . You can travel quarantine-free from all other states and territories. Return green flights have started for travellers stranded in Queensland. If you normally reside in New Zealand and are currently stranded in New South Wales, the Government is working on an emergency plan to bring you home. You cannot travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight from anywhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. Negative pre-departure tests are required to enter New Zealand. Travellers on managed return flights from NSW do not need pre-departure tests. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Managed return flights from NSW Return green flights from Queensland Quarantine-free travel with Australia --- Section Separator --- To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You meet immigration requirements. You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either Australia or New Zealand. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You must have a negative pre-departure test taken no more than 72 hours before you depart on your first international flight (see information below). You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). Travellers from Australia must get PCR or RT-PCR pre-departure tests. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from Australia. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed on their behalf. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. You will be asked these questions at the check-in kiosk. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. The COVID-19 symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a sore throat shortness of breath a runny nose loss of sense of smell, or a fever. --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to Australia is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You may also need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to Australia. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If you're about to return to New Zealand from Australia and the COVID-19 situation changes, you may need to enter managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from Australia, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in New Zealand if required. You need to ensure you can meet the entry criteria for Australia on your return. Immigration information at Department of Home Affairs — Australian Government (external link) --- Section Separator --- If there is a change in Alert Level in New Zealand or the situation changes in Australia, Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and news websites will announce it. You can also find information on this website about what to do at different Alert Levels. If community cases occur in New Zealand or Australia, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. --- Section Separator --- Once quarantine-free travel begins, you will not be able to register for a voucher or book a place in MIQ. Quarantine-free flights will be excluded from the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you already have an MIQ booking and you are now travelling on a quarantine-free flight into New Zealand, please cancel your voucher. This frees up space for returnees from other countries. If you are not sure if your flight is quarantine free, talk to your airline. --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel At the airport, while travelling and at the airport in New Zealand What to do after you arrive in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel Australia Cook Islands Niue Australia Cook Islands Niue International travel and transit Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Domestic travel New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand Signs and posters for travelling safely
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia New Zealand to Australia After you arrive --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands often with soap and water. Cover your coughs and sneezes, throw used tissues away and then wash your hands. Keep your distance from others. COVID-19 information for travellers arriving in the green travel zone — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell, stay in your accommodation and call a doctor for advice. If you want to talk to someone about your symptoms, call the National coronavirus and COVID-19 vaccine helpline on 1800 020 080 . Calls are free from Australia, and you can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There is an Australia-wide contact tracing app, but most states and territories use their own apps. Download and use the app for wherever you are to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you’re visiting safe. You can download and use most of these apps with a New Zealand SIM card. You may need an Australian SIM card or Australian contact details to use some of these apps. We recommend you keep the apps on your phone for up to 1 month, in case you receive an alert after you've left the state. If you cannot or choose not to use an app, make sure you sign in to businesses and venues with their alternative contact tracing system. Download contact tracing apps: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) — Check In CBR app (external link) New South Wales — Service NSW app (external link) Northern Territory — The Territory Check In app (external link) Queensland — Check In Qld app (external link) South Australia — mySA GOV app (external link) You need data roaming turned on to check in Tasmania — Check in TAS app (external link) Victoria — Service Victoria app (external link) Western Australia — SafeWA app (external link) You may need an Australian SIM card to create an account in SafeWA app If you cannot or choose not to use these apps, you need to to sign in to businesses and venues with their alternative contact tracing system. If you wish, you can also keep track of where you’ve been with your own pen and paper, a photo record or you could take a copy of the NZ COVID Tracer booklet with you. Download My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Each state or territory has its own rules, for example for gatherings, physical distancing, face coverings, testing and travel. Check the website of the state you’re in to find out what you need to do when you’re there. State and territory COVID-19 websites If you forgot to register at SafeTravel before you left New Zealand, we encourage you to do so now to get travel advice for Australia. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) If there is a change in Australia’s COVID-19 situation, for example cases in the community, check the COVID-19 website for the state or territory you’re in. They will tell you what you need to do. State and territory COVID-19 websites You should also check the Australian Government Department of Health website for advice. Department of Health — Australian Government (external link) Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check this website, your local COVID-19 website and news sources regularly for updates that may affect you. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we'd handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, like timing and location, it's useful to know what to expect. Here is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in Australia for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in Australia, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in Australia if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. Visit the Department of Health website for the latest advice, information and resources. Department of Health — Australian Government (external link) If you need information about COVID-19, call the National coronavirus and COVID-19 helpline for free on 1800 020 080 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. To find information about COVID-19, locations of interest, travel conditions (including domestic travel) and testing, visit the website for the state you’re in. Information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to New Zealand's or Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check them regularly for updates that may affect you. Follow our social media Check with your airline for any changes to your travel conditions. If you're travelling back to New Zealand, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Everyone must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before they depart Australia, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from Australia to New Zealand What to do before you travel At the airport and travelling What to do after you arrive in Australia --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands often with soap and water. Cover your coughs and sneezes, throw used tissues away and then wash your hands. Keep your distance from others. COVID-19 information for travellers arriving in the green travel zone — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell, stay in your accommodation and call a doctor for advice. If you want to talk to someone about your symptoms, call the National coronavirus and COVID-19 vaccine helpline on 1800 020 080 . Calls are free from Australia, and you can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There is an Australia-wide contact tracing app, but most states and territories use their own apps. Download and use the app for wherever you are to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you’re visiting safe. You can download and use most of these apps with a New Zealand SIM card. You may need an Australian SIM card or Australian contact details to use some of these apps. We recommend you keep the apps on your phone for up to 1 month, in case you receive an alert after you've left the state. If you cannot or choose not to use an app, make sure you sign in to businesses and venues with their alternative contact tracing system. Download contact tracing apps: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) — Check In CBR app (external link) New South Wales — Service NSW app (external link) Northern Territory — The Territory Check In app (external link) Queensland — Check In Qld app (external link) South Australia — mySA GOV app (external link) You need data roaming turned on to check in Tasmania — Check in TAS app (external link) Victoria — Service Victoria app (external link) Western Australia — SafeWA app (external link) You may need an Australian SIM card to create an account in SafeWA app If you cannot or choose not to use these apps, you need to to sign in to businesses and venues with their alternative contact tracing system. If you wish, you can also keep track of where you’ve been with your own pen and paper, a photo record or you could take a copy of the NZ COVID Tracer booklet with you. Download My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Each state or territory has its own rules, for example for gatherings, physical distancing, face coverings, testing and travel. Check the website of the state you’re in to find out what you need to do when you’re there. State and territory COVID-19 websites --- Section Separator --- If you forgot to register at SafeTravel before you left New Zealand, we encourage you to do so now to get travel advice for Australia. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- If there is a change in Australia’s COVID-19 situation, for example cases in the community, check the COVID-19 website for the state or territory you’re in. They will tell you what you need to do. State and territory COVID-19 websites You should also check the Australian Government Department of Health website for advice. Department of Health — Australian Government (external link) Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check this website, your local COVID-19 website and news sources regularly for updates that may affect you. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we'd handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, like timing and location, it's useful to know what to expect. Here is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in Australia for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in Australia, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in Australia if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Visit the Department of Health website for the latest advice, information and resources. Department of Health — Australian Government (external link) If you need information about COVID-19, call the National coronavirus and COVID-19 helpline for free on 1800 020 080 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. To find information about COVID-19, locations of interest, travel conditions (including domestic travel) and testing, visit the website for the state you’re in. Information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to New Zealand's or Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check them regularly for updates that may affect you. Follow our social media Check with your airline for any changes to your travel conditions. --- Section Separator --- If you're travelling back to New Zealand, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Everyone must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before they depart Australia, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from Australia to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel At the airport and travelling What to do after you arrive in Australia --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel Australia Cook Islands Niue Australia Cook Islands Niue International travel and transit Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Domestic travel New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand Signs and posters for travelling safely
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia New Zealand to Australia At the airport and travelling --- Section Separator --- You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. We recommend you wear a face covering while you’re in the airport. If you are unwell, you should not travel. Stay at home, and call Healthline for advice on 0800 611 116 . At the airport, your airline will decide whether you should be allowed to board. Make sure you bring evidence of any pre-existing conditions (for example hayfever) when you check in, to avoid being denied boarding. Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering on the flight. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in Australia, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless you're exempt, you’ll need to wear a face covering while you’re in the airport. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) You may be screened for your health when you arrive in Australia. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. You will not come into contact with travellers from other countries. Check what you need to do for your next destination. Some states and territories may have requirements you need to meet, or may tell you to quarantine when you get there. Travel information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) What to do before you travel At the airport and travelling What to do after you arrive in Australia --- Section Separator --- You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. We recommend you wear a face covering while you’re in the airport. If you are unwell, you should not travel. Stay at home, and call Healthline for advice on 0800 611 116 . At the airport, your airline will decide whether you should be allowed to board. Make sure you bring evidence of any pre-existing conditions (for example hayfever) when you check in, to avoid being denied boarding. --- Section Separator --- Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering on the flight. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in Australia, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. --- Section Separator --- Unless you're exempt, you’ll need to wear a face covering while you’re in the airport. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) You may be screened for your health when you arrive in Australia. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. You will not come into contact with travellers from other countries. --- Section Separator --- Check what you need to do for your next destination. Some states and territories may have requirements you need to meet, or may tell you to quarantine when you get there. Travel information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel At the airport and travelling What to do after you arrive in Australia --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel Australia Cook Islands Niue Australia Cook Islands Niue International travel and transit Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Domestic travel New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand Signs and posters for travelling safely
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia New Zealand to Australia What to do before you travel --- Section Separator --- You can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. All other normal entry requirements, for example immigration and biosecurity, apply. You can travel quarantine-free to all states and territories in Australia. People in New Zealand who meet the eligibility criteria can fly quarantine-free to most states in Australia. If you’re outside New Zealand, you can fly quarantine-free to Australia once you have met New Zealand’s managed isolation and quarantine requirements. If you're travelling from a country that has a quarantine-free arrangement with New Zealand, for example the Cook Islands, you must stay in New Zealand for 14 days before you can continue your journey to Australia. You will also need to meet immigration rules and eligibility criteria. Currently, quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Normal immigration rules apply. This means if you usually need a visa, then you will need one to fly quarantine-free to Australia. If you plan to travel to Australia and return to New Zealand, you will need to make sure you meet the visa and entry requirements for Australia before you travel and ensure you have a valid New Zealand visa or NZeTA to return to New Zealand. Visas to enter Australia (external link) You need to meet New Zealand immigration requirements in order to return to New Zealand. This means you need to have a ‘multiple entry’ visa that gives permission to leave New Zealand and return, provided all entry requirements are met. It is your responsibility to check the eligibility criteria for entering Australia. You will also need to check that the state or territory you want to land in, or travel onwards to, is accepting quarantine-free flights from New Zealand. The requirements for entering Australia could change at short notice. You also need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or Australia. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. New Zealand safe travel zone — Australian Government (external link) COVID-19 advice for international travellers — Australian Government (external link) Check the restrictions of Australian states or territories Before you travel to Australia, you need to complete the Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart. This declaration collects your contact details in Australia, flight details and your health status. Australia Travel Declaration (external link) You may need to complete a travel declaration or apply for a travel permit for the state or territory you're travelling to. Travel declarations and travel permits You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to travel to Australia on a quarantine-free flight. Australia has sometimes introduced requirements for testing on arrival for people travelling from New Zealand. You should regularly check the requirements of the state you're arriving in. Australia’s states and territories may have their own restrictions and requirements, for example for pre-departure testing. Check what you need to do and what you need to know before you travel. You should also check what you need to do if you are travelling between states in Australia, as you may need to meet some requirements. Travel information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Some states and territories require you to complete or apply for a travel permit or travel declaration. This is in addition to the Australia Travel Declaration that you must complete before you can enter Australia. Some states only require you to complete one when there have been outbreaks of COVID-19. However, some states have made it compulsory for everyone to complete one, whether you're travelling from New Zealand or from another state. Make sure you check what you need to do before you travel to any state or territory in Australia, and that you complete any declarations or permits before you depart. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for Australia. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in Australia for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Make sure you keep in contact with your employer if your return is delayed. If you’re an employer, make sure you know your workers’ rights in this situation. Guidance for workers and employers about quarantine-free travel (external link) You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in Australia, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in Australia if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. If there is a change in Alert Level in New Zealand or the situation changes in Australia, Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and news websites will announce it. We will also tell you what to do at different Alert Levels. If community cases occur in New Zealand or Australia, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we'd handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, like timing and location, it's useful to know what to expect. Here is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed If there is a change in Australia’s COVID-19 situation, for example cases in the community, check the COVID-19 website for the state or territory you’re in. They will tell you what you need to do. Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) What to do before you travel At the airport, while travelling and at the airport in Australia What to do after you arrive in Australia --- Section Separator --- You can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. All other normal entry requirements, for example immigration and biosecurity, apply. --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free to all states and territories in Australia. --- Section Separator --- People in New Zealand who meet the eligibility criteria can fly quarantine-free to most states in Australia. If you’re outside New Zealand, you can fly quarantine-free to Australia once you have met New Zealand’s managed isolation and quarantine requirements. If you're travelling from a country that has a quarantine-free arrangement with New Zealand, for example the Cook Islands, you must stay in New Zealand for 14 days before you can continue your journey to Australia. You will also need to meet immigration rules and eligibility criteria. Currently, quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Normal immigration rules apply. This means if you usually need a visa, then you will need one to fly quarantine-free to Australia. If you plan to travel to Australia and return to New Zealand, you will need to make sure you meet the visa and entry requirements for Australia before you travel and ensure you have a valid New Zealand visa or NZeTA to return to New Zealand. Visas to enter Australia (external link) You need to meet New Zealand immigration requirements in order to return to New Zealand. This means you need to have a ‘multiple entry’ visa that gives permission to leave New Zealand and return, provided all entry requirements are met. --- Section Separator --- It is your responsibility to check the eligibility criteria for entering Australia. You will also need to check that the state or territory you want to land in, or travel onwards to, is accepting quarantine-free flights from New Zealand. The requirements for entering Australia could change at short notice. You also need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or Australia. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. New Zealand safe travel zone — Australian Government (external link) COVID-19 advice for international travellers — Australian Government (external link) Check the restrictions of Australian states or territories Before you travel to Australia, you need to complete the Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart. This declaration collects your contact details in Australia, flight details and your health status. Australia Travel Declaration (external link) You may need to complete a travel declaration or apply for a travel permit for the state or territory you're travelling to. Travel declarations and travel permits You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to travel to Australia on a quarantine-free flight. Australia has sometimes introduced requirements for testing on arrival for people travelling from New Zealand. You should regularly check the requirements of the state you're arriving in. --- Section Separator --- Australia’s states and territories may have their own restrictions and requirements, for example for pre-departure testing. Check what you need to do and what you need to know before you travel. You should also check what you need to do if you are travelling between states in Australia, as you may need to meet some requirements. Travel information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Some states and territories require you to complete or apply for a travel permit or travel declaration. This is in addition to the Australia Travel Declaration that you must complete before you can enter Australia. Some states only require you to complete one when there have been outbreaks of COVID-19. However, some states have made it compulsory for everyone to complete one, whether you're travelling from New Zealand or from another state. Make sure you check what you need to do before you travel to any state or territory in Australia, and that you complete any declarations or permits before you depart. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for Australia. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in Australia for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Make sure you keep in contact with your employer if your return is delayed. If you’re an employer, make sure you know your workers’ rights in this situation. Guidance for workers and employers about quarantine-free travel (external link) You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in Australia, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in Australia if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- If there is a change in Alert Level in New Zealand or the situation changes in Australia, Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and news websites will announce it. We will also tell you what to do at different Alert Levels. If community cases occur in New Zealand or Australia, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we'd handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, like timing and location, it's useful to know what to expect. Here is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed If there is a change in Australia’s COVID-19 situation, for example cases in the community, check the COVID-19 website for the state or territory you’re in. They will tell you what you need to do. Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel At the airport, while travelling and at the airport in Australia What to do after you arrive in Australia --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel Australia Cook Islands Niue Australia Cook Islands Niue International travel and transit Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Domestic travel New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand Signs and posters for travelling safely
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia Victoria --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from ACT, Northern Territory, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia . You cannot travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight from anywhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit through New South Wales or Queensland by air or land to get to New Zealand. You'll need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours. Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales and Queensland remains paused . Pre-departure test requirements Quarantine-free travel from Victoria to New Zealand continues. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Victoria continues. There are locations of interest in Victoria. Locations of interest in Australia If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Currently you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales or Queensland by air or land. When quarantine-free travel from Queensland resumes at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July , you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales by air or land. You must get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours . This excludes those on managed return flights from NSW. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia You should regularly check and follow the health advice for the state you're in: Australia Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Register your travel at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) If you were at a location of interest anywhere in Australia at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. You will be asked to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate in your home or accommodation for the time advised by Healthline. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from ACT, Northern Territory, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia . You cannot travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight from anywhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit through New South Wales or Queensland by air or land to get to New Zealand. You'll need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours. Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales and Queensland remains paused . Pre-departure test requirements --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from Victoria to New Zealand continues. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Victoria continues. --- Section Separator --- There are locations of interest in Victoria. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Currently you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales or Queensland by air or land. When quarantine-free travel from Queensland resumes at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July , you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales by air or land. You must get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours . This excludes those on managed return flights from NSW. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia You should regularly check and follow the health advice for the state you're in: Australia Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Register your travel at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you were at a location of interest anywhere in Australia at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. You will be asked to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate in your home or accommodation for the time advised by Healthline. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- Australia New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed Cook Islands Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Australia Western Australia --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from ACT, Northern Territory, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia . You cannot travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight from anywhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit through New South Wales or Queensland by air or land to get to New Zealand. You'll need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours. Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales and Queensland remains paused . Pre-departure test requirements Quarantine-free travel from Western Australia to New Zealand continues. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Western Australia continues. There are locations of interest in Western Australia. Locations of interest in Australia If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Currently you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales or Queensland by air or land. When quarantine-free travel from Queensland resumes at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July , you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales by air or land. You must get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours . This excludes those on managed return flights from NSW. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia You should regularly check and follow the health advice for the state you're in: Australia Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Register your travel at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) If you were at a location of interest anywhere in Australia at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. You will be asked to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate in your home or accommodation for the time advised by Healthline. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from ACT, Northern Territory, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria and Western Australia . You cannot travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight from anywhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit through New South Wales or Queensland by air or land to get to New Zealand. You'll need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours. Quarantine-free travel from New South Wales and Queensland remains paused . Pre-departure test requirements --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from Western Australia to New Zealand continues. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Western Australia continues. --- Section Separator --- There are locations of interest in Western Australia. Locations of interest in Australia If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. --- Section Separator --- If you were at any location of interest, you cannot travel to New Zealand from anywhere in Australia within 14 days from when you were at the location of interest. If you visited a location of interest at the stated times, follow the isolation and testing advice on the relevant government website. Airlines and border officials will be asking people to declare whether they have been at one of the locations of interest. Currently you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales or Queensland after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales or Queensland by air or land. When quarantine-free travel from Queensland resumes at 11:59pm on Monday 12 July , you cannot travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from elsewhere in Australia if you were in New South Wales after 10:30pm on 26 June 2021. You cannot transit via New South Wales by air or land. You must get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand if you have been in Australia for more than 72 hours . This excludes those on managed return flights from NSW. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Locations of interest in Australia You should regularly check and follow the health advice for the state you're in: Australia Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Register your travel at SafeTravel to receive the latest official advice if the situation changes. Register at SafeTravel | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you were at a location of interest anywhere in Australia at the times specified, you need to: self-isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. You will be asked to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate in your home or accommodation for the time advised by Healthline. These instructions are outlined in a section 70 order (external link) If you are required to have a test or are awaiting a test result and are due to fly overseas, you must wait till you have received the negative test result before departing. Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- Australia New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Australian Capital Territory (ACT) New South Wales Northern Territory Queensland South Australia Tasmania Victoria Western Australia Return green flights from Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed Cook Islands Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands Find out about travelling quarantine-free between New Zealand and the Cook Islands. You may be interested in Travel from NZ to the Cook Islands Travel from the Cook Islands to NZ How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- Travel from NZ to the Cook Islands Travel from the Cook Islands to NZ How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Cook Islands Continues From New Zealand to Cook Islands: Continues Cook Islands New Zealand Continues From Cook Islands to New Zealand: Continues There are no locations of interest in the Cook Islands.
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in New Zealand can travel quarantine-free to the Cook Islands, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. You can travel to the outer islands after you arrive in Rarotonga. You do not need to self-isolate in Rarotonga before you continue your journey to the outer islands. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. To travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete the travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart New Zealand (see information below) You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Anyone can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for a stay of up to 31 days. The passport you hold does not matter. You must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. New Zealand and Australian passport holders need at least 7 days remaining on their passports from the date they leave the Cook Islands. All other passport holders need at least 6 months remaining. It is your responsibility to ensure that you meet the Cook Islands’ immigration requirements. Travel information for the Cook Islands (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You must check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand from the Cook Islands. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands — Immigration New Zealand (external link) You must complete the Cook Islands Ministry of Health travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart from New Zealand. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You need to complete our own Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you fly back to New Zealand. It's a good idea to complete it before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. You do not need a negative pre-departure COVID-19 test to travel to the Cook Islands. Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. You may be screened for your health when you arrive in the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. While you’re in the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you’re visiting safe from COVID-19. Follow the guidelines for the Cook Islands — you can find information on the Cook Islands Government website. COVID-19 Cook Islands response — Cook Islands Government (external link) Maintain physical distancing from others as much as possible. Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser regularly, and cough or sneeze into your elbow, and avoid touching your face. Avoid unnecessary touching of surfaces and items in places like shops. If you feel unwell while in the Cook Islands, stay in your accommodation and put a face covering on, if you have one. Do not use public transport to go home. Call the Cook Islands Healthline on 29667 for advice about what to do next. Make sure you participate in the Cook Islands system to track people’s movements. Doing your part means you are part of the national effort to keep the Cook Islands COVID-19 free. The Cook Islands uses a system that's a little different to New Zealand’s: Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the CookSafe+ app to keep track of the people you've been near. Keep reading to find out how to use your CookSafe QR Card, as this part is a little different to how we scan in here in New Zealand. When you arrive, register for your unique CookSafe QR Card, which is a physical card you should keep with you at all times. CookSafe stations will be set up at some locations, and you should use your QR Card to scan in. Scan your QR Card at all locations with a ‘CookSafe Tag In Here’ sign. To scan in, hold your card in front of the scanning area of the device. The screen will appear green when you have successfully scanned in. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. More information about the CookSafe QR Card (external link) Download the CookSafe+ app to help with contact tracing if needed. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) CookSafe+ uses Bluetooth technology, and it works in the same way as Bluetooth tracing on our NZ COVID Tracer app. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in one contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you're in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall one app to be able to use the other. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you've been and who you've seen with your own pen and paper or keep a photo record. The CookSafe+ app does not remove the need to scan in with your CookSafe QR Card. Remember to take your card with you everywhere you go. Any Bluetooth codes (or 'keys') that are sent or collected from your phone using one app can be accessed with the other app. The apps work together to make sure that whether you're in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, you can receive an alert if you've been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. Information about CookSafe+ app (external link) The Cook Islands has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. About the Alert Level system (external link) On 2 February 2021, the Cook Islands declared a dengue 2 outbreak. Dengue is spread by the bite of an infected mosquito. The outbreak is ongoing and you should protect yourself and your loved ones against mosquito bites. Information about dengue — New Zealand Ministry of Health (external link) Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in the Cook Islands for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Make sure you keep in contact with your employer if your return is delayed. If you’re an employer, make sure you know your workers’ rights in this situation. Guidance for workers and employers about quarantine-free travel (external link) You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in the Cook Islands, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the Cook Islands. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case If you’re travelling back to New Zealand, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Everyone must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before they depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. It's a good idea to complete Nau Mai Rā before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in New Zealand can travel quarantine-free to the Cook Islands, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. You can travel to the outer islands after you arrive in Rarotonga. You do not need to self-isolate in Rarotonga before you continue your journey to the outer islands. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. --- Section Separator --- To travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete the travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart New Zealand (see information below) You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Anyone can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for a stay of up to 31 days. The passport you hold does not matter. You must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. New Zealand and Australian passport holders need at least 7 days remaining on their passports from the date they leave the Cook Islands. All other passport holders need at least 6 months remaining. It is your responsibility to ensure that you meet the Cook Islands’ immigration requirements. Travel information for the Cook Islands (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You must check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand from the Cook Islands. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands — Immigration New Zealand (external link) You must complete the Cook Islands Ministry of Health travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart from New Zealand. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You need to complete our own Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you fly back to New Zealand. It's a good idea to complete it before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. You do not need a negative pre-departure COVID-19 test to travel to the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. You may be screened for your health when you arrive in the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. --- Section Separator --- While you’re in the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you’re visiting safe from COVID-19. Follow the guidelines for the Cook Islands — you can find information on the Cook Islands Government website. COVID-19 Cook Islands response — Cook Islands Government (external link) Maintain physical distancing from others as much as possible. Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser regularly, and cough or sneeze into your elbow, and avoid touching your face. Avoid unnecessary touching of surfaces and items in places like shops. If you feel unwell while in the Cook Islands, stay in your accommodation and put a face covering on, if you have one. Do not use public transport to go home. Call the Cook Islands Healthline on 29667 for advice about what to do next. Make sure you participate in the Cook Islands system to track people’s movements. Doing your part means you are part of the national effort to keep the Cook Islands COVID-19 free. The Cook Islands uses a system that's a little different to New Zealand’s: Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the CookSafe+ app to keep track of the people you've been near. Keep reading to find out how to use your CookSafe QR Card, as this part is a little different to how we scan in here in New Zealand. When you arrive, register for your unique CookSafe QR Card, which is a physical card you should keep with you at all times. CookSafe stations will be set up at some locations, and you should use your QR Card to scan in. Scan your QR Card at all locations with a ‘CookSafe Tag In Here’ sign. To scan in, hold your card in front of the scanning area of the device. The screen will appear green when you have successfully scanned in. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. More information about the CookSafe QR Card (external link) Download the CookSafe+ app to help with contact tracing if needed. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) CookSafe+ uses Bluetooth technology, and it works in the same way as Bluetooth tracing on our NZ COVID Tracer app. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in one contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you're in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall one app to be able to use the other. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you've been and who you've seen with your own pen and paper or keep a photo record. The CookSafe+ app does not remove the need to scan in with your CookSafe QR Card. Remember to take your card with you everywhere you go. Any Bluetooth codes (or 'keys') that are sent or collected from your phone using one app can be accessed with the other app. The apps work together to make sure that whether you're in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, you can receive an alert if you've been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. Information about CookSafe+ app (external link) The Cook Islands has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. About the Alert Level system (external link) On 2 February 2021, the Cook Islands declared a dengue 2 outbreak. Dengue is spread by the bite of an infected mosquito. The outbreak is ongoing and you should protect yourself and your loved ones against mosquito bites. Information about dengue — New Zealand Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in the Cook Islands for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Make sure you keep in contact with your employer if your return is delayed. If you’re an employer, make sure you know your workers’ rights in this situation. Guidance for workers and employers about quarantine-free travel (external link) You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in the Cook Islands, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the Cook Islands. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- If you’re travelling back to New Zealand, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Everyone must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before they depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. It's a good idea to complete Nau Mai Rā before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Australia Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You must complete a travel declaration before you depart for New Zealand. You cannot board your flight until you and your travelling companions have completed one, or had one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in the Cook Islands can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa — Immigration New Zealand (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. The COVID-19 symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a sore throat shortness of breath a runny nose loss of sense of smell, or a fever. You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the online travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you’re in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you’ve been. New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You’ll need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you’ve visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. New Zealand's contact tracing system is a little different to the CookSafe+ app and CookSafe QR code Card system. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you’ve been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of the 3 Ws: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, most ferries (except the Cook Strait ferry) and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you’re offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you're helping keep everyone safe. New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case How to travel back to the Cook Islands Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- You must complete a travel declaration before you depart for New Zealand. You cannot board your flight until you and your travelling companions have completed one, or had one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in the Cook Islands can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. --- Section Separator --- To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa — Immigration New Zealand (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. The COVID-19 symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a sore throat shortness of breath a runny nose loss of sense of smell, or a fever. You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the online travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you’re in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you’ve been. New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You’ll need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you’ve visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. New Zealand's contact tracing system is a little different to the CookSafe+ app and CookSafe QR code Card system. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you’ve been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of the 3 Ws: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, most ferries (except the Cook Strait ferry) and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you’re offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you're helping keep everyone safe. New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- How to travel back to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Australia Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case Niue
