Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. You can get vaccinated at any Alert Level — book yours now. What you can do to stay safe Your vaccine questions answered Locations of interest Alert Level Boundary map Advice for Auckland Advice for Northland Advice for Waikato Find out if you can travel What to do at Alert Level 2 When to wear a mask --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. A huge number of people across the country went out on Super Saturday and got their COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Monday: Media conference live stream at 4pm. Tuesday to Friday: Media conference live stream is at 1pm. Saturday and Sunday: No media conference. We will update this information if the live stream schedule changes. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 media conference — 18 October 2021 COVID-19 media conference — 14 October 2021 COVID-19 media conference — 13 October 2021 COVID-19 media conference — 12 October 2021 COVID-19 media conference — 11 October 2021 --- Section Separator --- Last updated 18 October 2021 at 1:00 pm 633 Total active cases in this community outbreak 633 Total active cases in this community outbreak 60 New community cases 60 New community cases --- Section Separator --- Last updated 18 October 2021 at 1:00 pm 85% Eligible population with 1 dose 85% Eligible population with 1 dose 66% Eligible population with 2 doses 66% Eligible population with 2 doses --- Section Separator --- It is OK to ask for help. Contact a helpline when you need support. Protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot and report misinformation. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline about getting tested.
Home About this site Contact and support Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. You can also contact us directly for help with your enquiries. I am looking for... Communication and language support COVID-19 support Employment support and services Financial support Provide feedback Report a breach Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- It is OK to ask for help. As we work through this together, there are people and agencies able to support you. Here is a range of advice, help, or support if you need it. Download a list of available services and support [PDF, 164 KB] --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- Find who to contact for COVID-19 related support. --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. --- Section Separator --- Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. --- Section Separator --- Support if you are seeking a job, or if you want to know your rights as an employee and keep yourself safe. --- Section Separator --- There may be support available for employers, employees and those who have lost their job or had their income reduced, or assistance to buy food. --- Section Separator --- If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach --- Section Separator --- You can contact the COVID-19 Group by emailing or sending a letter to us. If you are sending us feedback about Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage that you have feedback about. Email: covid19response@dpmc.govt.nz Postal address: COVID-19 Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand
Home About this site Privacy --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. There is no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. --- Section Separator --- There is no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. --- Section Separator --- We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. --- Section Separator --- We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact and support Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home About this site Terms of use --- Section Separator --- Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. You cannot adapt the content. CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence terms (external link) In addition to the above: The content may only be used for the purpose of raising awareness of COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccinations, and communicating the related rules, regulations, guidelines and safety information. The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use (including the “Purpose of use” section above). Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use (including the “Purpose of use” section above). To the extent that the above terms conflicts with the Creative Commons CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence, the above terms will take precedence. The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (DPMC) may remove access to the content at any time, and contact users to let them know if the content is out of date. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. --- Section Separator --- Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. You cannot adapt the content. CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence terms (external link) In addition to the above: The content may only be used for the purpose of raising awareness of COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccinations, and communicating the related rules, regulations, guidelines and safety information. The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use (including the “Purpose of use” section above). Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use (including the “Purpose of use” section above). To the extent that the above terms conflicts with the Creative Commons CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence, the above terms will take precedence. The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (DPMC) may remove access to the content at any time, and contact users to let them know if the content is out of date. --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact and support Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
We all need food and essential items such as medicine through Alert Level changes, so please do not try to go without. Information on eating out and going to cafes, restaurants, bars and night clubs at the different Alert Levels. Guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Advice about attending events and using public venues at each of the Alert Levels. Advice on going to a place of worship, attending a faith-based celebration or festival, and for people who are responsible for places of worship. Advice on funerals, tangihanga and providing last rites for families and whānau. Advice about who can be included in your household bubble at each Alert Level. Advice about meeting friends and whānau safely, and going to private social gatherings. Information on moving house, home maintenance, and buying or selling a property. Advice on hosting or attending a private social gathering at each of the Alert Levels. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on shared parenting arrangements, childcare and using childcare providers at different Alert Levels. Information on shopping, visiting retail stores and using personal care services. Advice on playing sports and other recreational activities at each of the Alert Levels. Advice for people planning to get married or form a civil union, people attending a wedding or civil union, and venues hosting these events. --- Section Separator --- We all need food and essential items such as medicine through Alert Level changes, so please do not try to go without. Information on eating out and going to cafes, restaurants, bars and night clubs at the different Alert Levels. Guidance on education during each Alert Level, including distance learning and sending children to school. Advice about attending events and using public venues at each of the Alert Levels. Advice on going to a place of worship, attending a faith-based celebration or festival, and for people who are responsible for places of worship. Advice on funerals, tangihanga and providing last rites for families and whānau. Advice about who can be included in your household bubble at each Alert Level. Advice about meeting friends and whānau safely, and going to private social gatherings. Information on moving house, home maintenance, and buying or selling a property. Advice on hosting or attending a private social gathering at each of the Alert Levels. Guidance for parents, carers and whānau on shared parenting arrangements, childcare and using childcare providers at different Alert Levels. Information on shopping, visiting retail stores and using personal care services. Advice on playing sports and other recreational activities at each of the Alert Levels. Advice for people planning to get married or form a civil union, people attending a wedding or civil union, and venues hosting these events.
Home Activities Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open as normal. There are no limits on the number of people you can drink or dine with, and you do not have to be seated to be served. All cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open, but with extra safety measures. There are no restrictions on the number of customers that can be seated inside or outside at a restaurant, cafe or bar — as long as everyone can safely stay 1 metre apart. Customers must be seated eat a table to eat or drink. If you are dining at a venue that has an on-licence to sell alcohol, you must be seated at a table to be served. This means you will not be able to go up to the bar to order, even if you are ordering food or a non-alcoholic drink. If you are dining at a venue that has does not have a licence to sell alcohol, you can go up to the counter to order and pay — but you must be seated while eating and drinking. All customer-facing staff legally must wear a face covering while serving customers. All workers must be physically separated from each other and customers by 1 metre. Hospitality owners should have processes in place to help customers physically distance. This can include u sing signs and posters to direct traffic flow, having separate entry and exit points and limiting numbers in congested areas such as bathrooms. Cafes, retaurants and bars must display the offical NZ COVID Tracer app QR code in multiple locations for people to scan, and also have an alternate system for collecting customer records for people who are unable to scan in. Working safely at Alert Level 2 Advice on record keeping and contact tracing If you are dining in, you should: remain seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your meal. be physically separated from other customers by 1 metre. scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. follow the establishment's physical distancing guidelines. Face coverings are encouraged when you are not eating or drinking but they are not a requirement. You can go to cafes to get counter food to take away to eat. It is up to the cafe to decide if customers can bring their own reusable cups or containers. The cafe must have good hygiene processes if it allows them. You must wear a face covering when picking up a takeaway order. T here are no restrictions on the number of customers that can be seated inside or outside at food courts and eateries at shopping malls — as long as everyone can safely stay 1 metre apart. If you are waiting in line to order, keep 1 metre away from other customers and staff. If you are visiting a takeaway food outlet — for example, a fish and chip shop, you must wear a face covering when picking up your order. We recommend you keep 2 metres away from people you do not know. You can continue to use food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and UberEats. To keep yourself and others safe, try to: use a contactless payment or prepay online if possible keep at least 2 metre distance from the delivery driver ask the driver to leave your delivery at the door to reduce contact. At Alert Level 2, bars and night clubs can open with seated service only. This means you will need to stay seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your drinks. Dance floors are closed. Karaoke is allowed —  with extra hygiene measures such as cleaning and sanitising. People singing karaoke do not need to wear a face covering, but we encourage everyone to wear one when they are not singing. You will need to order drinks through your server. Do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. At Alert Level 2, you can use the gaming machines as long as you do not eat or drink in the gaming lounge. You must wear a face covering when using the gaming machines, and keep 1 metre apart from others. You cannot play pool or other activities at a licensed premises such as a bar. However you may be able to play these at a business, such as a pool hall or bowling alley, that does not provide food and drink, or where the food and drink offering is provided in the same complex but within a separate defined space and managed according to the food service rules. Cafes, restaurants and takeaways can open at Alert Level 3, but only for contactless pick-up, delivery or drive through. You cannot go in to dine. Nightclubs are closed. Food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and Uber Eats, can also operate at Alert Level 3. Liquor stores can only offer contactless pick-up and delivery (if their liquor licence allows delivery). At Alert Level 4, all cafes, restaurants, takeaways, and nightclubs must close. Food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and Uber Eats, cannot operate at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open as normal. There are no limits on the number of people you can drink or dine with, and you do not have to be seated to be served. All cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants, bars, night clubs and takeaway services can open, but with extra safety measures. There are no restrictions on the number of customers that can be seated inside or outside at a restaurant, cafe or bar — as long as everyone can safely stay 1 metre apart. Customers must be seated eat a table to eat or drink. If you are dining at a venue that has an on-licence to sell alcohol, you must be seated at a table to be served. This means you will not be able to go up to the bar to order, even if you are ordering food or a non-alcoholic drink. If you are dining at a venue that has does not have a licence to sell alcohol, you can go up to the counter to order and pay — but you must be seated while eating and drinking. All customer-facing staff legally must wear a face covering while serving customers. All workers must be physically separated from each other and customers by 1 metre. Hospitality owners should have processes in place to help customers physically distance. This can include u sing signs and posters to direct traffic flow, having separate entry and exit points and limiting numbers in congested areas such as bathrooms. Cafes, retaurants and bars must display the offical NZ COVID Tracer app QR code in multiple locations for people to scan, and also have an alternate system for collecting customer records for people who are unable to scan in. Working safely at Alert Level 2 Advice on record keeping and contact tracing If you are dining in, you should: remain seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your meal. be physically separated from other customers by 1 metre. scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. follow the establishment's physical distancing guidelines. Face coverings are encouraged when you are not eating or drinking but they are not a requirement. You can go to cafes to get counter food to take away to eat. It is up to the cafe to decide if customers can bring their own reusable cups or containers. The cafe must have good hygiene processes if it allows them. You must wear a face covering when picking up a takeaway order. T here are no restrictions on the number of customers that can be seated inside or outside at food courts and eateries at shopping malls — as long as everyone can safely stay 1 metre apart. If you are waiting in line to order, keep 1 metre away from other customers and staff. If you are visiting a takeaway food outlet — for example, a fish and chip shop, you must wear a face covering when picking up your order. We recommend you keep 2 metres away from people you do not know. You can continue to use food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and UberEats. To keep yourself and others safe, try to: use a contactless payment or prepay online if possible keep at least 2 metre distance from the delivery driver ask the driver to leave your delivery at the door to reduce contact. At Alert Level 2, bars and night clubs can open with seated service only. This means you will need to stay seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your drinks. Dance floors are closed. Karaoke is allowed —  with extra hygiene measures such as cleaning and sanitising. People singing karaoke do not need to wear a face covering, but we encourage everyone to wear one when they are not singing. You will need to order drinks through your server. Do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. At Alert Level 2, you can use the gaming machines as long as you do not eat or drink in the gaming lounge. You must wear a face covering when using the gaming machines, and keep 1 metre apart from others. You cannot play pool or other activities at a licensed premises such as a bar. However you may be able to play these at a business, such as a pool hall or bowling alley, that does not provide food and drink, or where the food and drink offering is provided in the same complex but within a separate defined space and managed according to the food service rules. --- Section Separator --- Cafes, restaurants and takeaways can open at Alert Level 3, but only for contactless pick-up, delivery or drive through. You cannot go in to dine. Nightclubs are closed. Food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and Uber Eats, can also operate at Alert Level 3. Liquor stores can only offer contactless pick-up and delivery (if their liquor licence allows delivery). --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, all cafes, restaurants, takeaways, and nightclubs must close. Food delivery services, such as Delivereasy and Uber Eats, cannot operate at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Education --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. There are no restrictions on school activities like camps, sports practices, school productions and interschool events. If you or your child is sick, staying home is the best thing you can do to stop the spread of COVID-19. Remind your tamariki (children) to wash and dry their hands often, and cough or sneeze into their elbow. All schools, kura and early learning services legally must display a QR code. If you have older children, encourage them to sign in and keep track of where they have been. The NZ COVID Tracer app is the best way to help us contact trace quickly and safely. Advice for parents and whānau (external link) At Alert Level 2, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. Schools should put extra public health control measures in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and keep staff, students and tamariki safe. Schools should provide distance learning options for tamariki who cannot attend school – for example, if they need to self-isolate. School events or activities like performances, cultural events and sports can continue. Ākonga and teachers do not need to physically distance. But parents, carers and whānau who visit the school should try to keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. At Alert Level 2, students can return to school hostels and accomodation at boarding schools, but they must travel there in a safe way. More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) At Alert Level 2, tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials, and meetings in person. Tertiary providers should provide distance learning options for those students who cannot attend classes in person, and to make sure students who do attend in-person classes can distance safely. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers/whare wānanga (external link) Students can now travel between an Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 area to attend classes in person, and return to their student accommodation. You will need evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result administered no more than 72 hours before your travel, and you will also need to carry evidence of your reason to travel. Students returning to their accommodation facility should contact their accommodation provider first, so they can help you move back safely. Travel across an Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundary Face coverings in schools and tertiary education facilities for those aged 12 and over is strongly encouraged, but it is not a requirement. Staff and students must wear a face covering at tertiary education facilities when accessing services such as student health, pharmacies, banks and other retailers on campus. Early learning centres can reopen to all children, with a maximum of 10 children in each bubble. Parents and caregivers must wear a face covering when picking up and dropping off their tamariki. The Ministry of Health is asking early childhood teachers to get tested for COVID-19 even if they do not have symptoms. This testing is not a requirement, but is encouraged. Regular testing helps us to identify any undetected chains of transmission in the community. Getting a COVID-19 test Schools and kura still remain closed. Updated advice for Auckland | education.govt.nz (external link) Advice for bubbles at early learning centres | education.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 3, tamariki and rangatahi (young people) should learn from home. Early learning centres can open to provide childcare for tamariki whose parents need to go into work. Play centres and playgroups must close. Schools and kura will be open for tamariki in Years 1 to 10 whose parents or carers need to go to work and have no available options for childcare. All young people in Years 11, 12 and 13 should learn from home. We encourage you to keep your tamariki at home if you have other caregiving options. Your child's school will work with you to find out which tamariki need to go into school. Schools should provide distance learning options for all tamariki and young people who are learning from home, including those tamariki who need to self-isolate and cannot attend school. Schools must set up bubbles to help maintain physical distancing in the classroom and outside. Each bubble should have no more than 10 tamariki or rangatahi. Teachers are not included in this total. Teachers should stay with the same bubble of students. Ministry of Education resources and advice for parents and whānau for learning from home (external link) More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) Anyone working at schools or kura in Auckland and all Alert Level 3 regions will be required to return a negative COVID-19 test result by 26 October. Staff who have not yet returned to work will need evidence of a negative COVID-19 test before they can work on site. The testing requirements apply to volunteers, contractors and unpaid staff. Everyone must get a test, even if they have been fully vaccinated. This advice applies to Auckland, Northland and Waikato. At Alert Level 3, all tertiary education providers should deliver their courses online. In some cases online learning may not be an option — for example lab work or research. Tertiary providers can deliver some education services in person if they can meet public health guidelines. Limit in person classes or workshops to 10 people per class. This group of 10 should include the tutor. Each class is considered a bubble and must not interact with any other student/staff bubbles of 10. Staff and students should wear a face covering when attending classes in person. Students can now travel between an Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 area to attend classes in person, and return to their student accommodation. You will need evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result administered no more than 72 hours before your travel, and you will also need to carry evidence of your reason to travel. Students returning to their accomodation facility should contact their accommodation provider first, so they can help you move back safely. Travel across an Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundary Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers/whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) Student accommodation — for example university halls of residence — can remain open with physical distancing and extra hygiene measures. Students should continue to stay in their accommodation and keep to their bubble. If your tamariki or rangatahi has a learning need, you can invite one teacher aide to be a part of your bubble so they can provide face-to-face learning. The teacher aide cannot join any other school bubble. At Alert Level 4, all education facilities are closed. This includes: early learning services schools kura tertiary education providers and whare wānanga All students must learn from home. Your child's school will contact you directly about organising learning materials and devices to be delivered to your home. Tertiary accommodation can remain open. If you normally live in student accommodation, but you travelled home to stay with friends or whānau during Alert Level 4, you cannot return to your student accommodation until Alert Level 4 restrictions are lifted. Learning from home resources and information | Ministry of Education (external link) Home learning TV | TVNZ (external link) Mauri Reo, Mauri Ora | Māori TV (external link) COVID-19 information | Ministry of Education (external link) If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your tamariki. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your tamariki. The carer cannot join another household bubble. All tamariki, rangatahi, and ākonga (students) should stay home if they are unwell. If you or your child develops cold or flu symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. If you or your child are told to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. If you or your child are asked to get a COVID-19 test, please get one. COVID-19 tests are free for everyone, including international students. By getting a test you are helping keep everyone safe. More information on getting a COVID-19 test At Alert Levels 1 and 2, face coverings in schools and tertiary education facilities are strongly encouraged for those aged 12 and over — but they are not a requirement. At Alert Level 3, all staff and students in Year 9 to Year 13 must wear a face covering when indoors. Parents and caregivers may want to wear a face covering when dropping or picking up their tamariki from school. Tamariki and students who are over 12 years old legally must wear a face covering on public transport. But face coverings are not needed on a school bus. People with certain health or medical conditions do not have to wear face coverings. Find out when you need to wear a face covering From 1 January 2022, all staff and support people who have contact with tamariki (children) and rangatahi (young people) must be fully vaccinated. They need to have their first dose by 15 November 2021. Mandatory vaccinations for the education sector If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it will close for at least 72 hours to allow for cleaning and contact tracing. Schools should follow Ministry of Health advice or advice from the local health authority. If you are a student who is struggling financially, you may be able to ask Studylink for help. COVID-19 information for students (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. There are no restrictions on school activities like camps, sports practices, school productions and interschool events. If you or your child is sick, staying home is the best thing you can do to stop the spread of COVID-19. Remind your tamariki (children) to wash and dry their hands often, and cough or sneeze into their elbow. All schools, kura and early learning services legally must display a QR code. If you have older children, encourage them to sign in and keep track of where they have been. The NZ COVID Tracer app is the best way to help us contact trace quickly and safely. Advice for parents and whānau (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, all early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. Schools should put extra public health control measures in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and keep staff, students and tamariki safe. Schools should provide distance learning options for tamariki who cannot attend school – for example, if they need to self-isolate. School events or activities like performances, cultural events and sports can continue. Ākonga and teachers do not need to physically distance. But parents, carers and whānau who visit the school should try to keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. At Alert Level 2, students can return to school hostels and accomodation at boarding schools, but they must travel there in a safe way. More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) At Alert Level 2, tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials, and meetings in person. Tertiary providers should provide distance learning options for those students who cannot attend classes in person, and to make sure students who do attend in-person classes can distance safely. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers/whare wānanga (external link) Students can now travel between an Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 area to attend classes in person, and return to their student accommodation. You will need evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result administered no more than 72 hours before your travel, and you will also need to carry evidence of your reason to travel. Students returning to their accommodation facility should contact their accommodation provider first, so they can help you move back safely. Travel across an Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundary Face coverings in schools and tertiary education facilities for those aged 12 and over is strongly encouraged, but it is not a requirement. Staff and students must wear a face covering at tertiary education facilities when accessing services such as student health, pharmacies, banks and other retailers on campus. --- Section Separator --- Early learning centres can reopen to all children, with a maximum of 10 children in each bubble. Parents and caregivers must wear a face covering when picking up and dropping off their tamariki. The Ministry of Health is asking early childhood teachers to get tested for COVID-19 even if they do not have symptoms. This testing is not a requirement, but is encouraged. Regular testing helps us to identify any undetected chains of transmission in the community. Getting a COVID-19 test Schools and kura still remain closed. Updated advice for Auckland | education.govt.nz (external link) Advice for bubbles at early learning centres | education.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 3, tamariki and rangatahi (young people) should learn from home. Early learning centres can open to provide childcare for tamariki whose parents need to go into work. Play centres and playgroups must close. Schools and kura will be open for tamariki in Years 1 to 10 whose parents or carers need to go to work and have no available options for childcare. All young people in Years 11, 12 and 13 should learn from home. We encourage you to keep your tamariki at home if you have other caregiving options. Your child's school will work with you to find out which tamariki need to go into school. Schools should provide distance learning options for all tamariki and young people who are learning from home, including those tamariki who need to self-isolate and cannot attend school. Schools must set up bubbles to help maintain physical distancing in the classroom and outside. Each bubble should have no more than 10 tamariki or rangatahi. Teachers are not included in this total. Teachers should stay with the same bubble of students. Ministry of Education resources and advice for parents and whānau for learning from home (external link) More information for students, whānau and the education sector (external link) Anyone working at schools or kura in Auckland and all Alert Level 3 regions will be required to return a negative COVID-19 test result by 26 October. Staff who have not yet returned to work will need evidence of a negative COVID-19 test before they can work on site. The testing requirements apply to volunteers, contractors and unpaid staff. Everyone must get a test, even if they have been fully vaccinated. This advice applies to Auckland, Northland and Waikato. At Alert Level 3, all tertiary education providers should deliver their courses online. In some cases online learning may not be an option — for example lab work or research. Tertiary providers can deliver some education services in person if they can meet public health guidelines. Limit in person classes or workshops to 10 people per class. This group of 10 should include the tutor. Each class is considered a bubble and must not interact with any other student/staff bubbles of 10. Staff and students should wear a face covering when attending classes in person. Students can now travel between an Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 area to attend classes in person, and return to their student accommodation. You will need evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result administered no more than 72 hours before your travel, and you will also need to carry evidence of your reason to travel. Students returning to their accomodation facility should contact their accommodation provider first, so they can help you move back safely. Travel across an Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundary Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers/whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) Student accommodation — for example university halls of residence — can remain open with physical distancing and extra hygiene measures. Students should continue to stay in their accommodation and keep to their bubble. If your tamariki or rangatahi has a learning need, you can invite one teacher aide to be a part of your bubble so they can provide face-to-face learning. The teacher aide cannot join any other school bubble. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, all education facilities are closed. This includes: early learning services schools kura tertiary education providers and whare wānanga All students must learn from home. Your child's school will contact you directly about organising learning materials and devices to be delivered to your home. Tertiary accommodation can remain open. If you normally live in student accommodation, but you travelled home to stay with friends or whānau during Alert Level 4, you cannot return to your student accommodation until Alert Level 4 restrictions are lifted. Learning from home resources and information | Ministry of Education (external link) Home learning TV | TVNZ (external link) Mauri Reo, Mauri Ora | Māori TV (external link) COVID-19 information | Ministry of Education (external link) If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your tamariki. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your tamariki. The carer cannot join another household bubble. --- Section Separator --- All tamariki, rangatahi, and ākonga (students) should stay home if they are unwell. If you or your child develops cold or flu symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. If you or your child are told to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. If you or your child are asked to get a COVID-19 test, please get one. COVID-19 tests are free for everyone, including international students. By getting a test you are helping keep everyone safe. More information on getting a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- At Alert Levels 1 and 2, face coverings in schools and tertiary education facilities are strongly encouraged for those aged 12 and over — but they are not a requirement. At Alert Level 3, all staff and students in Year 9 to Year 13 must wear a face covering when indoors. Parents and caregivers may want to wear a face covering when dropping or picking up their tamariki from school. Tamariki and students who are over 12 years old legally must wear a face covering on public transport. But face coverings are not needed on a school bus. People with certain health or medical conditions do not have to wear face coverings. Find out when you need to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- From 1 January 2022, all staff and support people who have contact with tamariki (children) and rangatahi (young people) must be fully vaccinated. They need to have their first dose by 15 November 2021. Mandatory vaccinations for the education sector --- Section Separator --- If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it will close for at least 72 hours to allow for cleaning and contact tracing. Schools should follow Ministry of Health advice or advice from the local health authority. --- Section Separator --- If you are a student who is struggling financially, you may be able to ask Studylink for help. COVID-19 information for students (external link) --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Events and entertainment --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people who can attend a large event or gathering. You can hold events both indoors and outdoors. All public facilities such as libraries, museums and cinemas can open. You can travel to attend events in another town or city. At Alert Level 2, t here are no restrictions on the number of people that can attend an event at a venue, for example at a stadium, cinema, theatre, casino, concert hall or conference venue — as long as everyone can safely stay 1 metre apart. Attendees can be seated or standing. This includes indoor and outdoor event facilities, and both ticketed and non-ticketed events. Events that are held outdoors but not at an event facility — for example a concert at a park, a parade, or an organised sporting event like an amateur club rugby tournament must follow the rules for social gatherings. These are limited to 100 people in any defined indoor or outdoor space. Social gatherings at Alert Level 2 Everyone attending your event needs to keep a safe distance from people they do not know. Attendees must stay 1 metre away from each other — unless the entire venue has been hired for a private social gathering. People working at the event also need to stay 1 metre apart from each other. If your venue has a stage, make sure the audience is seated 1 metre away. If your venue is small, you may need to limit attendees to make sure everyone can distance safely. You may want to alternate occupied seats with vacant seats to help everyone keep a safe distance. Think about how people can safely distance in congested areas – for example, bathrooms, entrances, lifts, corridors and walkways. Encourage people to arrive early. You may want to open the venue up earlier to allow people more time to find their seats, order food or drink and avoid congestion. Use signs and posters to direct traffic flow, and let people know where they need to stand. Performers do not need to wear a face covering when on stage, but we encourage them to wear one backstage. Staff working at an event are encouraged to wear a face covering but this is not a requirement — unless they are serving food or drinks. Attendees are encouraged to wear a face covering where possible — they can take it off to eat and drink. Customers at a cinema or theatre do not have to be seated at a table and are able to consume food and drink from their seats. At all other event facilties, if you are providing food and drinks everyone must be seated at a table to eat and drink. Tables should be spaced 1 metre apart to help with physical distancing. Workers serving food and drinks must wear a face covering. If your event has a licence to sell alcohol, attendees m ust be seated at a table to be served. This means attendees will not be able to go up to the bar to order, even if they are ordering food or a non-alcoholic drink. If your event is not licenced, a ttendees can buy food and drink from the counter area but they must be seated at a table to eat or drink. We encourage you to use contactless payment options for selling tickets. Ask attendees to buy their tickets online, before they come to the event to avoid queueing at the venue. Regularly clean high touch surfaces – for example, door handles, handrails, counters and shared facilities. Clean shared equipment – for example microphones used by speakers at events. Clean audience and spectators areas such as seating before and after your event. Provide hand sanitiser in high traffic areas, for example entrances, doorways, lifts and bathroom facilities. Refill sanitisers and soap regularly. Talk to your workers to see if they have access to enough hygiene supplies. Use signs and posters to educate attendees about good hygiene habits. Ask people who are unwell not to attend your event. In enclosed spaces, such as indoor settings, or indoor areas of outdoor venues, good ventilation can help to reduce the transmission of COVID-19. If you’re organising an event in an indoor venue, you should think about: Keeping doors and windows open to improve airflow Regularly maintaining air conditioning systems We strongly encourage you to wear a face covering. Stay home if you are unwell or if you have been asked to isolate. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer App. Avoid congregating or gathering at entrances or in small shared spaces such as the bathroom. If you need to pay for your food or drinks, use contactless payment options if possible. Follow the venue's safety measures and stay in your allocated seat. At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a concert, conference, sports game or any other event. If the event is in an Alert Level 2 area, attendees will need to meet physical distancing guidelines, and keep 1 metre apart. At Alert Level 2, public venues such as libraries, art galleries and museums can open. Public venues also include indoor recreation facilities — for example, swimming pools, gyms and health clubs. If people can safely maintain 2 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people can be inside. Some venues may choose to limit the number of visitors to meet physical distancing requirements. Please follow the instructions of the venue, and be prepared to queue. Employees working at indoor public venues legally must wear a face covering — except for at a swimming pool. If you go to a public venue: keep 2 metres physical distance from people you do not know sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app you legally must wear a face covering at all indoor public venues — except for when you are exercising wash or sanitise your hands after using shared equipment. Sports and recreation at Alert Level 2 If you are feeling unwell, stay home and call Healthline or your doctor for advice. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still stay home if you are feeling unwell. Staying home will help protect you, your whānau, friends and community. At Alert Level 3, we all need to stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Events cannot go ahead. The only gatherings allowed at Alert Level 3 are weddings , civil unions, funerals and tangihanga — up to a maximum of 10 people. Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 3 All public facilities and venues such as museums, cinemas, libraries and swimming pools must close. At Alert Level 3, some venues, for example community centres or sports club rooms can open to provide an essential service — for example, a food bank or vaccination centre. Members of the public are permitted to enter the premises to use the essential service. Anyone accessing an essential service must wear a face covering and keep 2 metres away from people who are not in their household bubble. At Alert Level 4, we all need to stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Events cannot go ahead. All public facilities and venues — for example, museums, cinemas, libraries and swimming pools must close. All venues must have ways for people — including staff and guests to record their visit. You can do this by displaying a QR code for your venue and asking people to scan in. If an event is either indoors or outdoors and in one defined space, you can use one QR code for the event. If the event is spread out across sites, we recommend having separate QR codes for each business or exhibit. You should also use an event QR code at entrances to help people sign in. You also need to provide an alternative way for people to record their visit, especially for people who are not able to scan QR codes. Find out more information about record keeping and contact tracing Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people who can attend a large event or gathering. You can hold events both indoors and outdoors. All public facilities such as libraries, museums and cinemas can open. You can travel to attend events in another town or city. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, t here are no restrictions on the number of people that can attend an event at a venue, for example at a stadium, cinema, theatre, casino, concert hall or conference venue — as long as everyone can safely stay 1 metre apart. Attendees can be seated or standing. This includes indoor and outdoor event facilities, and both ticketed and non-ticketed events. Events that are held outdoors but not at an event facility — for example a concert at a park, a parade, or an organised sporting event like an amateur club rugby tournament must follow the rules for social gatherings. These are limited to 100 people in any defined indoor or outdoor space. Social gatherings at Alert Level 2 Everyone attending your event needs to keep a safe distance from people they do not know. Attendees must stay 1 metre away from each other — unless the entire venue has been hired for a private social gathering. People working at the event also need to stay 1 metre apart from each other. If your venue has a stage, make sure the audience is seated 1 metre away. If your venue is small, you may need to limit attendees to make sure everyone can distance safely. You may want to alternate occupied seats with vacant seats to help everyone keep a safe distance. Think about how people can safely distance in congested areas – for example, bathrooms, entrances, lifts, corridors and walkways. Encourage people to arrive early. You may want to open the venue up earlier to allow people more time to find their seats, order food or drink and avoid congestion. Use signs and posters to direct traffic flow, and let people know where they need to stand. Performers do not need to wear a face covering when on stage, but we encourage them to wear one backstage. Staff working at an event are encouraged to wear a face covering but this is not a requirement — unless they are serving food or drinks. Attendees are encouraged to wear a face covering where possible — they can take it off to eat and drink. Customers at a cinema or theatre do not have to be seated at a table and are able to consume food and drink from their seats. At all other event facilties, if you are providing food and drinks everyone must be seated at a table to eat and drink. Tables should be spaced 1 metre apart to help with physical distancing. Workers serving food and drinks must wear a face covering. If your event has a licence to sell alcohol, attendees m ust be seated at a table to be served. This means attendees will not be able to go up to the bar to order, even if they are ordering food or a non-alcoholic drink. If your event is not licenced, a ttendees can buy food and drink from the counter area but they must be seated at a table to eat or drink. We encourage you to use contactless payment options for selling tickets. Ask attendees to buy their tickets online, before they come to the event to avoid queueing at the venue. Regularly clean high touch surfaces – for example, door handles, handrails, counters and shared facilities. Clean shared equipment – for example microphones used by speakers at events. Clean audience and spectators areas such as seating before and after your event. Provide hand sanitiser in high traffic areas, for example entrances, doorways, lifts and bathroom facilities. Refill sanitisers and soap regularly. Talk to your workers to see if they have access to enough hygiene supplies. Use signs and posters to educate attendees about good hygiene habits. Ask people who are unwell not to attend your event. In enclosed spaces, such as indoor settings, or indoor areas of outdoor venues, good ventilation can help to reduce the transmission of COVID-19. If you’re organising an event in an indoor venue, you should think about: Keeping doors and windows open to improve airflow Regularly maintaining air conditioning systems We strongly encourage you to wear a face covering. Stay home if you are unwell or if you have been asked to isolate. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer App. Avoid congregating or gathering at entrances or in small shared spaces such as the bathroom. If you need to pay for your food or drinks, use contactless payment options if possible. Follow the venue's safety measures and stay in your allocated seat. At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a concert, conference, sports game or any other event. If the event is in an Alert Level 2 area, attendees will need to meet physical distancing guidelines, and keep 1 metre apart. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, public venues such as libraries, art galleries and museums can open. Public venues also include indoor recreation facilities — for example, swimming pools, gyms and health clubs. If people can safely maintain 2 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people can be inside. Some venues may choose to limit the number of visitors to meet physical distancing requirements. Please follow the instructions of the venue, and be prepared to queue. Employees working at indoor public venues legally must wear a face covering — except for at a swimming pool. If you go to a public venue: keep 2 metres physical distance from people you do not know sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app you legally must wear a face covering at all indoor public venues — except for when you are exercising wash or sanitise your hands after using shared equipment. Sports and recreation at Alert Level 2 If you are feeling unwell, stay home and call Healthline or your doctor for advice. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still stay home if you are feeling unwell. Staying home will help protect you, your whānau, friends and community. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, we all need to stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Events cannot go ahead. The only gatherings allowed at Alert Level 3 are weddings , civil unions, funerals and tangihanga — up to a maximum of 10 people. Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 3 All public facilities and venues such as museums, cinemas, libraries and swimming pools must close. At Alert Level 3, some venues, for example community centres or sports club rooms can open to provide an essential service — for example, a food bank or vaccination centre. Members of the public are permitted to enter the premises to use the essential service. Anyone accessing an essential service must wear a face covering and keep 2 metres away from people who are not in their household bubble. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, we all need to stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Events cannot go ahead. All public facilities and venues — for example, museums, cinemas, libraries and swimming pools must close. --- Section Separator --- All venues must have ways for people — including staff and guests to record their visit. You can do this by displaying a QR code for your venue and asking people to scan in. If an event is either indoors or outdoors and in one defined space, you can use one QR code for the event. If the event is spread out across sites, we recommend having separate QR codes for each business or exhibit. You should also use an event QR code at entrances to help people sign in. You also need to provide an alternative way for people to record their visit, especially for people who are not able to scan QR codes. Find out more information about record keeping and contact tracing Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Faith-based gatherings --- Section Separator --- At Alert level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people that can attend a faith-based gathering. This includes: attending a service or prayer funerals and tangihanga weddings and civil union ceremonies faith-based celebrations and festivals. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 1 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 1 At Alert Level 2, places of worship can host services and ceremonies to a maximum of 100 people in any indoor or outdoor defined space. The gathering limits do not include staff — for example, clergy. Defined spaces All places of worship must have ways for attendees to record their visit. This can be done by asking everyone to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or by recording their contact details manually. Offer online services so people who cannot attend in person can participate. Some religious rituals or practices need close contact — for example, a christening. Try to keep the time spent in close contact to a minimum. Remove communal resources such as prayer mats or prayer books. Encourage attendees to wear a face covering. Clean and sanitise musical instruments and other shared surfaces thoroughly before and after use. Singing, for example church choirs and other types of performance can go ahead. Performers do not need to wear a face covering. You can serve food and drink and host events or functions such as catered morning tea — as long as you keep to the gathering limits. Encourage contactless donations instead of a cash collection box. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 2 Funerals advice for faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 2 We strongly encourage you to wear a face covering when visiting a place of worship. You can mix with friends and whānau, but please be considerate of others and leave enough space for people to keep their distance if they want to. Do not attend a service or prayer if you are unwell. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app or give your details to the place of worship to support contact tracing. Take home any personal items you bring in with you — for example, a prayer mat or prayer beads. At Alert Level 2, you can get together with up to 100 people for a faith-based celebration or festival. The number of people who can attend a gathering or celebration does not include anyone leading or working at the gathering. If you are organising a faith-based celebration, you need to do the following: Make sure you do not exceed the gathering limits. You can offer a livestream option so more people can attend from home. Keep a record of everyone who attends. You can do this by creating a NZ COVID Tracer app QR code for your venue or location and asking your guests to scan in, or by recording their contact details manually. You do not need to keep contact tracing records if you are hosting a private gathering at your home and everyone knows each other. Make sure the venue is big enough for people to spread out comfortably if they want to. Try to provide seated table service if you are serving food or drinks. Seat extended household bubbles together at one table and place the tables 2 metres apart to help with physical distancing. At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a faith-based gathering — such as services, ceremonies and festivals. If the gathering is in an Alert Level 2 region, the gathering limits apply. If you are travelling to an Alert Level 1 region to attend a faith based gathering, make sure you do it in a safe way. This includes: keeping a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used wearing a face covering on public transport services and flights keeping a 2 metre distance from people you do not know regularly washing or sanitising your hands. You can only travel into and out of the Alert Level 3 area (in 1 trip) to attend a: funeral or tangihanga, or a wedding or civil union service You cannot cross travel across the Alert Level boundary to attend any other type of faith-based gathering. If you are crossing the Alert Level 3 boundary: your place of departure or destination cannot be in the Alert Level 3 area, and your travel must be necessary to get to the service. you must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency, to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 3 guidance. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. At Alert Level 3, places of worship can only open to members of the public for weddings, civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga. These services are limited to 10 people — this includes the faith-based leader officiating the wedding, civil union, funeral or tangihanga. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 3 Funerals advice for faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 Services can be livestreamed. We encourage whānau to pray or worship together in their household bubbles and join a livestream online. Services and ceremonies can be livestreamed. You can go onto the premises if you are conducting the service or are involved in broadcasting the livestream event — for example, a camera person. Places of worship can also open to provide an essential service — for example, a food bank or vaccination centre. Members of the public are permitted to enter the premises to use the essential service. Anyone visiting a place of worship to access an essential service must wear a face covering and keep 2 metres away from people who are not in their household bubble. At Alert Level 3, we still need to stay in our household bubbles. Gathering together for faith-based celebrations and festivals is not permitted. You can come together within your existing household bubble and you can also expand your bubble slightly to bring in close family, caregivers, or to support people who may be isolated. Keep your bubble small and exclusive. We encourage you to talk to your whānau and friends to plan how you can all celebrate together virtually. At Alert Level 4, places of worship cannot open to the public for faith-based ceremonies or services. This includes weddings, civil unions and funerals and tangihanga. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 4 Funerals advice for faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 4 We acknowledge that this may be difficult for people who want to gather together for prayer or worship. Services can be livestreamed from a church, mosque, marae, temple or other place of worship. You can go onto the premises if you are conducting the service or are involved in broadcasting the livestream event — for example, a camera person. Places of worship can open to provide an essential service — for example, a food bank or vaccination centre. Members of the public are permitted to enter the premises to use the essential service. Anyone visiting a place of worship to access an essential service must wear a face covering and keep 2 metres away from people who are not in their household bubble. At Alert Level 4, gathering together for faith-based celebrations or festivals is not permitted. You can come together within your existing household bubble to celebrate with the people you live with. We encourage you to talk to your whānau and friends to plan how you can all celebrate together virtually. --- Section Separator --- At Alert level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people that can attend a faith-based gathering. This includes: attending a service or prayer funerals and tangihanga weddings and civil union ceremonies faith-based celebrations and festivals. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 1 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, places of worship can host services and ceremonies to a maximum of 100 people in any indoor or outdoor defined space. The gathering limits do not include staff — for example, clergy. Defined spaces All places of worship must have ways for attendees to record their visit. This can be done by asking everyone to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or by recording their contact details manually. Offer online services so people who cannot attend in person can participate. Some religious rituals or practices need close contact — for example, a christening. Try to keep the time spent in close contact to a minimum. Remove communal resources such as prayer mats or prayer books. Encourage attendees to wear a face covering. Clean and sanitise musical instruments and other shared surfaces thoroughly before and after use. Singing, for example church choirs and other types of performance can go ahead. Performers do not need to wear a face covering. You can serve food and drink and host events or functions such as catered morning tea — as long as you keep to the gathering limits. Encourage contactless donations instead of a cash collection box. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 2 Funerals advice for faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 2 We strongly encourage you to wear a face covering when visiting a place of worship. You can mix with friends and whānau, but please be considerate of others and leave enough space for people to keep their distance if they want to. Do not attend a service or prayer if you are unwell. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app or give your details to the place of worship to support contact tracing. Take home any personal items you bring in with you — for example, a prayer mat or prayer beads. At Alert Level 2, you can get together with up to 100 people for a faith-based celebration or festival. The number of people who can attend a gathering or celebration does not include anyone leading or working at the gathering. If you are organising a faith-based celebration, you need to do the following: Make sure you do not exceed the gathering limits. You can offer a livestream option so more people can attend from home. Keep a record of everyone who attends. You can do this by creating a NZ COVID Tracer app QR code for your venue or location and asking your guests to scan in, or by recording their contact details manually. You do not need to keep contact tracing records if you are hosting a private gathering at your home and everyone knows each other. Make sure the venue is big enough for people to spread out comfortably if they want to. Try to provide seated table service if you are serving food or drinks. Seat extended household bubbles together at one table and place the tables 2 metres apart to help with physical distancing. At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a faith-based gathering — such as services, ceremonies and festivals. If the gathering is in an Alert Level 2 region, the gathering limits apply. If you are travelling to an Alert Level 1 region to attend a faith based gathering, make sure you do it in a safe way. This includes: keeping a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used wearing a face covering on public transport services and flights keeping a 2 metre distance from people you do not know regularly washing or sanitising your hands. You can only travel into and out of the Alert Level 3 area (in 1 trip) to attend a: funeral or tangihanga, or a wedding or civil union service You cannot cross travel across the Alert Level boundary to attend any other type of faith-based gathering. If you are crossing the Alert Level 3 boundary: your place of departure or destination cannot be in the Alert Level 3 area, and your travel must be necessary to get to the service. you must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency, to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 3 guidance. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, places of worship can only open to members of the public for weddings, civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga. These services are limited to 10 people — this includes the faith-based leader officiating the wedding, civil union, funeral or tangihanga. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 3 Funerals advice for faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 Services can be livestreamed. We encourage whānau to pray or worship together in their household bubbles and join a livestream online. Services and ceremonies can be livestreamed. You can go onto the premises if you are conducting the service or are involved in broadcasting the livestream event — for example, a camera person. Places of worship can also open to provide an essential service — for example, a food bank or vaccination centre. Members of the public are permitted to enter the premises to use the essential service. Anyone visiting a place of worship to access an essential service must wear a face covering and keep 2 metres away from people who are not in their household bubble. At Alert Level 3, we still need to stay in our household bubbles. Gathering together for faith-based celebrations and festivals is not permitted. You can come together within your existing household bubble and you can also expand your bubble slightly to bring in close family, caregivers, or to support people who may be isolated. Keep your bubble small and exclusive. We encourage you to talk to your whānau and friends to plan how you can all celebrate together virtually. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, places of worship cannot open to the public for faith-based ceremonies or services. This includes weddings, civil unions and funerals and tangihanga. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 4 Funerals advice for faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 4 We acknowledge that this may be difficult for people who want to gather together for prayer or worship. Services can be livestreamed from a church, mosque, marae, temple or other place of worship. You can go onto the premises if you are conducting the service or are involved in broadcasting the livestream event — for example, a camera person. Places of worship can open to provide an essential service — for example, a food bank or vaccination centre. Members of the public are permitted to enter the premises to use the essential service. Anyone visiting a place of worship to access an essential service must wear a face covering and keep 2 metres away from people who are not in their household bubble. At Alert Level 4, gathering together for faith-based celebrations or festivals is not permitted. You can come together within your existing household bubble to celebrate with the people you live with. We encourage you to talk to your whānau and friends to plan how you can all celebrate together virtually. --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Funerals, tangihanga and last rites --- Section Separator --- Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher Alert Levels, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. At Alert Level 1, there is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at funerals and tangihanga to help with contact tracing. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 2, there are limits on the number of people who can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate or unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu. Up to 100 people can attend a funeral or tangihanga both indoors and outdoors. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes maraes churches, mosques and other faith-based places of worship hired venues or facilities private dwellings. You do not need to wear a face covering when attending a funeral or tangihanga but we encourage you to wear one, if possible. Do not attend a funeral, tangihanga or religious gathering if you are feeling unwell. S tay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting a test. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau are close friends. Organisers must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing took place, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. At Alert Level 2, funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility and, all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by the Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. The gathering limits for funerals apply. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) You can travel to another region that is at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a funeral or tangihanga. If you need to travel to an Alert Level 3 region to attend a funeral or tangihanga, you will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Health. This includes crossing from one Alert Level 3 area into another neighbouring Alert Level 3 area — for example, going from Auckland to Northland. Exemptions are only granted on a case-by-case basis and are not guaranteed. Apply for an exemption (external link) You can travel into and out of the Alert Level 3 area (in 1 trip) to: attend a funeral or tangihanga, or collect or accompany the tūpāpaku. Your place of departure or destination cannot be in the Alert Level 3 area, and your travel must be necessary to get to the service. You must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency — to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 3 guidance. At Alert Level 3, up to 10 people can attend a funeral, tangihanga or burial. The 10 person limit does not include kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. This means you can have a total of 15 people at a funeral or tangihanga — 10 guests and 5 staff. You can serve food or drink but guests must be seated to be served. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Families and communities must not carry out funerals themselves. Funeral directors can continue working at Alert Level 3. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements — they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. If you are attending a funeral or tangihanga, we recommend you: keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing and hugging wear a face covering. 2 whānau members from the same bubble as the deceased are allowed to dress their loved one — this must be carried out in the presence of an embalmer or funeral director. You can go to view the tūpāpaku — the person who has died — by appointment with the funeral director. Up to 10 people from the same bubble can view the tūpāpaku. The 10 person limit does not include staff who are attending. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in their household bubbles, and with the 10 person limit.  You can only go to vew the tūpāpaku once. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Everyone attending a viewing must wear a face covering. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Funeral directors legally must keep a record of all the people who enter the funeral home. If you're visiting a funeral home, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. Religious rituals must be done in the presence of an embalmer or funeral director. Your funeral director will let you know about any PPE requirements, and the public health guidelines you need to follow. Up to 10 people can attend the funeral. The 10 person limit includes members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while keeping 2 metres away from people not in your bubble. You can travel to another region within Alert Level 3 to: attend a funeral or tangihanga accompany tūpāpaku or a deceased person. Travel across the Alert Level boundary is still restricted to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. If you need to travel to an Alert Level 2 region to attend a funeral or tangihanga, you will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Health. Exemptions are only granted on a case-by-case basis and are not guaranteed. Apply for an exemption (external link) Gathering together for funerals and tangihanga is not allowed at Alert Level 4. This is because they present a high risk of spreading COVID-19. Staying home is the best way to protect our whānau. This includes: public funeral or memorial services burials and cremations tangihanga at marae, funeral homes and churches private whānau tangihanga. If someone in your whānau or in your bubble passes away, the following steps can help you make the necessary arrangements. Contact the health provider or GP of the person who has passed away — ideally this should be done by someone in the same bubble. Get in touch with a local funeral director who will help you organise next steps. Māori communities, iwi, hapū and whānau are being encouraged to establish local kaiwhakarite or people who can assist whānau during this time. Get in touch with your iwi and hapū organisations or local marae to see if a kaiwhakarite has already been established. Whānau can go into a funeral home to view the tūpāpaku if they are all in the same household bubble. You will need to book this in advance. There are strict requirements that funeral directors need to follow. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Everyone attending a viewing must wear a face covering. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Funeral directors legally must keep a record of all the people who enter the funeral home. If you're visiting a funeral home, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. Funeral directors will continue working during Alert Level 4. They will be able to guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include: livestreaming services on social media, or videoing them for later viewing holding the funeral or tangi after the Alert Level 4 restrictions ease holding a memorial service later, when restrictions on gatherings are lifted and it is safe to do so. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) Whānau who live in the same region as their whānau urupā can choose to have their loved one buried there. Whānau will need to make the urupā arrangements themselves. Your local marae can assist whānau by phone, email or video-conference with making these arrangements. Funeral directors will work with Muslim communities to identify people who can carry out ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body). Religious rituals must be done in the presence of an embalmer or funeral director. Your funeral director will let you know about any PPE requirements, and the public health guidelines you need to follow. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are in an Alert Level 4 region, you are not permitted to travel to attend a funeral or tangihanga. We recommend you talk to the funeral director to organise virtual options. --- Section Separator --- Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher Alert Levels, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at funerals and tangihanga to help with contact tracing. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, there are limits on the number of people who can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate or unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu. Up to 100 people can attend a funeral or tangihanga both indoors and outdoors. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes maraes churches, mosques and other faith-based places of worship hired venues or facilities private dwellings. You do not need to wear a face covering when attending a funeral or tangihanga but we encourage you to wear one, if possible. Do not attend a funeral, tangihanga or religious gathering if you are feeling unwell. S tay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting a test. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau are close friends. Organisers must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing took place, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. At Alert Level 2, funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility and, all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by the Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. The gathering limits for funerals apply. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) You can travel to another region that is at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a funeral or tangihanga. If you need to travel to an Alert Level 3 region to attend a funeral or tangihanga, you will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Health. This includes crossing from one Alert Level 3 area into another neighbouring Alert Level 3 area — for example, going from Auckland to Northland. Exemptions are only granted on a case-by-case basis and are not guaranteed. Apply for an exemption (external link) You can travel into and out of the Alert Level 3 area (in 1 trip) to: attend a funeral or tangihanga, or collect or accompany the tūpāpaku. Your place of departure or destination cannot be in the Alert Level 3 area, and your travel must be necessary to get to the service. You must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency — to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 3 guidance. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, up to 10 people can attend a funeral, tangihanga or burial. The 10 person limit does not include kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. This means you can have a total of 15 people at a funeral or tangihanga — 10 guests and 5 staff. You can serve food or drink but guests must be seated to be served. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Families and communities must not carry out funerals themselves. Funeral directors can continue working at Alert Level 3. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements — they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. If you are attending a funeral or tangihanga, we recommend you: keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing and hugging wear a face covering. 2 whānau members from the same bubble as the deceased are allowed to dress their loved one — this must be carried out in the presence of an embalmer or funeral director. You can go to view the tūpāpaku — the person who has died — by appointment with the funeral director. Up to 10 people from the same bubble can view the tūpāpaku. The 10 person limit does not include staff who are attending. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in their household bubbles, and with the 10 person limit.  You can only go to vew the tūpāpaku once. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Everyone attending a viewing must wear a face covering. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Funeral directors legally must keep a record of all the people who enter the funeral home. If you're visiting a funeral home, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. Religious rituals must be done in the presence of an embalmer or funeral director. Your funeral director will let you know about any PPE requirements, and the public health guidelines you need to follow. Up to 10 people can attend the funeral. The 10 person limit includes members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while keeping 2 metres away from people not in your bubble. You can travel to another region within Alert Level 3 to: attend a funeral or tangihanga accompany tūpāpaku or a deceased person. Travel across the Alert Level boundary is still restricted to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. If you need to travel to an Alert Level 2 region to attend a funeral or tangihanga, you will need to apply for an exemption from the Ministry of Health. Exemptions are only granted on a case-by-case basis and are not guaranteed. Apply for an exemption (external link) --- Section Separator --- Gathering together for funerals and tangihanga is not allowed at Alert Level 4. This is because they present a high risk of spreading COVID-19. Staying home is the best way to protect our whānau. This includes: public funeral or memorial services burials and cremations tangihanga at marae, funeral homes and churches private whānau tangihanga. If someone in your whānau or in your bubble passes away, the following steps can help you make the necessary arrangements. Contact the health provider or GP of the person who has passed away — ideally this should be done by someone in the same bubble. Get in touch with a local funeral director who will help you organise next steps. Māori communities, iwi, hapū and whānau are being encouraged to establish local kaiwhakarite or people who can assist whānau during this time. Get in touch with your iwi and hapū organisations or local marae to see if a kaiwhakarite has already been established. Whānau can go into a funeral home to view the tūpāpaku if they are all in the same household bubble. You will need to book this in advance. There are strict requirements that funeral directors need to follow. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Everyone attending a viewing must wear a face covering. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Funeral directors legally must keep a record of all the people who enter the funeral home. If you're visiting a funeral home, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. Funeral directors will continue working during Alert Level 4. They will be able to guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include: livestreaming services on social media, or videoing them for later viewing holding the funeral or tangi after the Alert Level 4 restrictions ease holding a memorial service later, when restrictions on gatherings are lifted and it is safe to do so. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) Whānau who live in the same region as their whānau urupā can choose to have their loved one buried there. Whānau will need to make the urupā arrangements themselves. Your local marae can assist whānau by phone, email or video-conference with making these arrangements. Funeral directors will work with Muslim communities to identify people who can carry out ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body). Religious rituals must be done in the presence of an embalmer or funeral director. Your funeral director will let you know about any PPE requirements, and the public health guidelines you need to follow. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are in an Alert Level 4 region, you are not permitted to travel to attend a funeral or tangihanga. We recommend you talk to the funeral director to organise virtual options. --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Household bubbles --- Section Separator --- Northland will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 19 October. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. This will be reviewed on Thursday 21 October. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. There are different restrictions for Auckland and Waikato and Northland. Please read the information on this page carefully to find out which rules apply to you. Find out the Alert Level for your area Your household bubble (or ‘bubble’) is the group of people you have day-to-day, physical contact with — for example, your immediate family or flatmates. It may also include close friends or workmates. At some Alert Levels, there are restrictions on who can be included in your bubble. This is to reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on who can be included in your household bubble. You can invite people to your home and gather with them in a public place. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 1 Private social gatherings at Alert Level 1 At Alert Level 2, there are no restrictions on who can be included in your household bubble. You can invite people to your home and gather with them in a public place. Gatherings are limited to 100 people in any indoor or outdoor space. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 2 Private social gatherings at Alert Level 2 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 2 Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. People in Auckland can now meet up with friends and whānau who are not in their household. There are some restrictions: You can meet 1 other household at a time, up to a maximum of 10 people. You must meet outside, and maintain physical distancing. You can invite friends and whānau to your home, but you can only meet outside. For example, you can meet in the garden or have a barbecue in your backyard. Friends and whānau not in your household are not allowed inside your home. You can meet different households, but please act responsibly. Tamariki (children) can have playdates with 1 other household at a time — as long as it is outside. You are also permitted to expand your household bubble to bring in isolated people, caregivers or close whānau — as long as everyone in the bubble agrees. You can meet with people who are in your extended bubble inside your house. Keep your bubble small and exclusive. Early learning centres can reopen to all children, with a maximum of 10 children in each bubble. Schools and kura remain closed. Find out more about what you can do if you are in Auckland Keep your bubble as small as possible. At Alert Level 3, you can expand your household bubble to bring in isolated people, caregivers or close whānau — as long as everyone in the bubble agrees. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. If you need to work at Alert Level 3, schools are open in a limited capacity. You can expand your household bubble to include a carer for your children. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your children. They cannot join another household bubble. Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, weddings and civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga can go ahead with up to 10 people. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 3 Private social gatherings at Alert Level 3 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 This advice applies to both Auckland and Waikato. At Alert Level 3, tamariki can travel between their parents' or caregivers' homes under a shared custody arrangement — inc luding between an Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 area. This includes care for tamariki under a whāngai arrangement. Parents or caregivers can accompany their tamariki  to and from the home of the other parent or caregiver. Everyone aged 12 and over must have evidence of a COVID-19 test within 7 days of travel. If tamariki are travelling for a shared parenting arrangement, they do not need proof of travel. Travel across the Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundary If you need to go to work and you have no other available options for childcare, you can apply for an exemption to bring in a carer from an Alert Level 2 area. Exemptions are only granted on a case-by-case basis and are not guaranteed. You can apply through the Ministry of Health. Apply for an exemption (external link) At Alert Level 4, you must keep your household bubble as small as possible. Only make physical contact with those in your bubble. If you live alone, you may arrange with another person living alone or a household to be part of your household bubble. This arrangement must be exclusive between you and the other household. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. Events, including family and social gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes parties, funerals and tangihanga, and weddings. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 4 Private social gatherings at Alert Level 4 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 4 Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 4 If you are not safe, you can leave your bubble. Family violence and sexual violence support lines are open for people to call, email or text. Wellbeing helplines and support If you or someone you know is in danger, call 111 . During Alert Level 4, tamariki (children) can continue to go between 2 homes to form a shared bubble if their parents or caregivers have a: shared care arrangement, or a court order under the Care of Children Act 2004 saying who has the day to day care of a child at specified times. Your shared bubble can include 2 households at most, and the other household must be in the same or adjacent district. If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your children. The carer cannot join another household bubble. Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Northland will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 19 October. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. This will be reviewed on Thursday 21 October. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. There are different restrictions for Auckland and Waikato and Northland. Please read the information on this page carefully to find out which rules apply to you. Find out the Alert Level for your area --- Section Separator --- Your household bubble (or ‘bubble’) is the group of people you have day-to-day, physical contact with — for example, your immediate family or flatmates. It may also include close friends or workmates. At some Alert Levels, there are restrictions on who can be included in your bubble. This is to reduce the spread of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on who can be included in your household bubble. You can invite people to your home and gather with them in a public place. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 1 Private social gatherings at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, there are no restrictions on who can be included in your household bubble. You can invite people to your home and gather with them in a public place. Gatherings are limited to 100 people in any indoor or outdoor space. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 2 Private social gatherings at Alert Level 2 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. People in Auckland can now meet up with friends and whānau who are not in their household. There are some restrictions: You can meet 1 other household at a time, up to a maximum of 10 people. You must meet outside, and maintain physical distancing. You can invite friends and whānau to your home, but you can only meet outside. For example, you can meet in the garden or have a barbecue in your backyard. Friends and whānau not in your household are not allowed inside your home. You can meet different households, but please act responsibly. Tamariki (children) can have playdates with 1 other household at a time — as long as it is outside. You are also permitted to expand your household bubble to bring in isolated people, caregivers or close whānau — as long as everyone in the bubble agrees. You can meet with people who are in your extended bubble inside your house. Keep your bubble small and exclusive. Early learning centres can reopen to all children, with a maximum of 10 children in each bubble. Schools and kura remain closed. Find out more about what you can do if you are in Auckland Keep your bubble as small as possible. At Alert Level 3, you can expand your household bubble to bring in isolated people, caregivers or close whānau — as long as everyone in the bubble agrees. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. If you need to work at Alert Level 3, schools are open in a limited capacity. You can expand your household bubble to include a carer for your children. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your children. They cannot join another household bubble. Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, weddings and civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga can go ahead with up to 10 people. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 3 Private social gatherings at Alert Level 3 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 This advice applies to both Auckland and Waikato. At Alert Level 3, tamariki can travel between their parents' or caregivers' homes under a shared custody arrangement — inc luding between an Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 area. This includes care for tamariki under a whāngai arrangement. Parents or caregivers can accompany their tamariki  to and from the home of the other parent or caregiver. Everyone aged 12 and over must have evidence of a COVID-19 test within 7 days of travel. If tamariki are travelling for a shared parenting arrangement, they do not need proof of travel. Travel across the Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundary If you need to go to work and you have no other available options for childcare, you can apply for an exemption to bring in a carer from an Alert Level 2 area. Exemptions are only granted on a case-by-case basis and are not guaranteed. You can apply through the Ministry of Health. Apply for an exemption (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you must keep your household bubble as small as possible. Only make physical contact with those in your bubble. If you live alone, you may arrange with another person living alone or a household to be part of your household bubble. This arrangement must be exclusive between you and the other household. You cannot invite friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. Events, including family and social gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes parties, funerals and tangihanga, and weddings. Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 4 Private social gatherings at Alert Level 4 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 4 Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 4 If you are not safe, you can leave your bubble. Family violence and sexual violence support lines are open for people to call, email or text. Wellbeing helplines and support If you or someone you know is in danger, call 111 . During Alert Level 4, tamariki (children) can continue to go between 2 homes to form a shared bubble if their parents or caregivers have a: shared care arrangement, or a court order under the Care of Children Act 2004 saying who has the day to day care of a child at specified times. Your shared bubble can include 2 households at most, and the other household must be in the same or adjacent district. If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your children. The carer cannot join another household bubble. Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Meeting friends and whānau --- Section Separator --- Northland will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 19 October. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. This will be reviewed on Thursday 21 October. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. There are different restrictions for Auckland and Waikato and Northland. Please read the information on this page carefully to find out which rules apply to you. Find out the Alert Level for your area At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people you can invite to your home or gather with in a public place. You can travel to meet friends and whānau in another town or city. You can do your part to keep you, your whānau and friends safe and reduce the chances of spreading COVID-19. We encourage you to: keep a record of the friends and whānau you visit not visit or invite others to your home if you or someone in your household is feeling unwell regularly wash your hands often with soap and water before and after you leave home take the vaccine when you are offered it, and encourage friends and whānau to get vaccinated. At Alert Level 1, you can visit your friends and whānau in a rest home or care facility. There are no restrictions on the number of visitors, and visitors do not have to be from the same household bubble. Please do not visit a care facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. At Alert Level 2, you can get together with friends and whānau but gatherings are limited to 100 people in both indoor and outdoor settings. This includes people who usually live in your house. Social gatherings include: having guests over to your home family events weddings funerals and tangihanga faith-based services and places of worship community club and sport activities celebration events like birthday parties or stag dos. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the indoor and outdoor gathering limits. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 2 Weddings and civil union ceremonies at Alert Level 2 Faith-based gatherings at Alert Level 2 Private social gatherings at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to visit friends or whānau or attend a social gathering. If the gathering is in an Alert Level 2 region, the indoor and outdoor gathering limits apply. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot physically distance, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to keep up good health behaviours to keep you, your whānau, and your community safe. The person organising the gathering legally must: make sure there are less than 100 people attending. record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen. You do not need to do this if everyone at the gathering knows each other. If attendees do not all know each other, everyone attending legally must sign in using the NZ COVID-Tracer app or provide their details in a contact tracing register. If you have hired a venue for a gathering, you still need to follow the indoor and outdoor gathering limits. If you are meeting friends or whānau at a cafe or restaurant, you will need to follow the establishment's safety measures. At Alert Level 2, you can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. You may have to complete a health check before you visit, and visiting hours may be limited. Facilities may also limit the number of visitors. Please check with the facility or rest home before you visit. When visiting a rest home or care facility, remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, wash or sanitise your hands and wear a face covering if needed. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. People in Auckland can now meet up with friends and whānau who are not in their household. There are some restrictions: You can meet 1 other household at a time, up to a maximum of 10 people. You must meet outside, and maintain physical distancing. You can invite friends and whānau to your home, but you can only meet outside. For example, you can meet in the garden or have a barbecue in your backyard. Friends and whānau not in your household are not allowed inside your home. You can meet different households, but please act responsibly. You are also permitted to expand your household bubble to bring in isolated people, caregivers or close whānau — as long as everyone in the bubble agrees. You can meet with people who are in your extended bubble inside your house. Keep your bubble small and exclusive. Tamariki (children) can have playdates with 1 other household at a time — as long as it is outside. Find out more about what you can do if you are in Auckland Keep your bubble as small as possible. Your household bubble is the group of people you have day-to-day, physical contact with. At Alert Level 3, it includes the people you live with and, if necessary, isolated people or caregivers — as long as everyone in the bubble agrees. Keep your bubble small and exclusive. You cannot invite other friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. This advice applies to both Auckland and Waikato. You can get married, or attend a wedding or funeral or tangihanga. Weddings, funerals and tangihanga are limited to 10 people. Keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with. Avoid close physical contact such as hugging, hongi or harirū. Keep track of where you have been. The person organising the wedding, funeral or tangihanga legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. Do not attend a wedding, funeral or tangihanga if you are feeling unwell. Stay home and call Healthline or your doctor for advice. Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Household bubbles at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, you will not be able to visit friends and whānau living in a rest home or aged care facility. We encourage you to connect with them virtually. You can apply for an exemption to visit whānau on compassionate grounds, such as visiting those whānau who are in palliative care. You will need to talk to the healthcare provider about an exemption. At Alert Level 4, you legally must stay in your household bubble. You cannot invite friends, whānau or extended family to your home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. If you want to talk to a friend, call or video chat with them. You can drop off groceries to others, but drop the groceries at the door. Always keep a 2 metre distance. Children can travel between the homes of separated parents. If you live alone, you may arrange with another person living alone or a household to be part of your household bubble. This arrangement must be exclusive between you and the other household. Events or gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes birthday parties, weddings, funerals and tangihanga. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 4 Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 4 Private social gatherings at Alert Level 4 Household bubbles at Alert Level 4 At Alert Level 4, you will not be able to visit friends and whānau living in a rest home or aged care facility. We encourage you to connect with them virtually. --- Section Separator --- Northland will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 19 October. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. This will be reviewed on Thursday 21 October. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. There are different restrictions for Auckland and Waikato and Northland. Please read the information on this page carefully to find out which rules apply to you. Find out the Alert Level for your area --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people you can invite to your home or gather with in a public place. You can travel to meet friends and whānau in another town or city. You can do your part to keep you, your whānau and friends safe and reduce the chances of spreading COVID-19. We encourage you to: keep a record of the friends and whānau you visit not visit or invite others to your home if you or someone in your household is feeling unwell regularly wash your hands often with soap and water before and after you leave home take the vaccine when you are offered it, and encourage friends and whānau to get vaccinated. At Alert Level 1, you can visit your friends and whānau in a rest home or care facility. There are no restrictions on the number of visitors, and visitors do not have to be from the same household bubble. Please do not visit a care facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can get together with friends and whānau but gatherings are limited to 100 people in both indoor and outdoor settings. This includes people who usually live in your house. Social gatherings include: having guests over to your home family events weddings funerals and tangihanga faith-based services and places of worship community club and sport activities celebration events like birthday parties or stag dos. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the indoor and outdoor gathering limits. Funerals, tangihanga and last rites at Alert Level 2 Weddings and civil union ceremonies at Alert Level 2 Faith-based gatherings at Alert Level 2 Private social gatherings at Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to visit friends or whānau or attend a social gathering. If the gathering is in an Alert Level 2 region, the indoor and outdoor gathering limits apply. Remember to keep a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used. When you are out and about, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. If you cannot physically distance, we encourage you to wear a face covering. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to keep up good health behaviours to keep you, your whānau, and your community safe. The person organising the gathering legally must: make sure there are less than 100 people attending. record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen. You do not need to do this if everyone at the gathering knows each other. If attendees do not all know each other, everyone attending legally must sign in using the NZ COVID-Tracer app or provide their details in a contact tracing register. If you have hired a venue for a gathering, you still need to follow the indoor and outdoor gathering limits. If you are meeting friends or whānau at a cafe or restaurant, you will need to follow the establishment's safety measures. At Alert Level 2, you can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. You may have to complete a health check before you visit, and visiting hours may be limited. Facilities may also limit the number of visitors. Please check with the facility or rest home before you visit. When visiting a rest home or care facility, remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, wash or sanitise your hands and wear a face covering if needed. --- Section Separator --- Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. People in Auckland can now meet up with friends and whānau who are not in their household. There are some restrictions: You can meet 1 other household at a time, up to a maximum of 10 people. You must meet outside, and maintain physical distancing. You can invite friends and whānau to your home, but you can only meet outside. For example, you can meet in the garden or have a barbecue in your backyard. Friends and whānau not in your household are not allowed inside your home. You can meet different households, but please act responsibly. You are also permitted to expand your household bubble to bring in isolated people, caregivers or close whānau — as long as everyone in the bubble agrees. You can meet with people who are in your extended bubble inside your house. Keep your bubble small and exclusive. Tamariki (children) can have playdates with 1 other household at a time — as long as it is outside. Find out more about what you can do if you are in Auckland Keep your bubble as small as possible. Your household bubble is the group of people you have day-to-day, physical contact with. At Alert Level 3, it includes the people you live with and, if necessary, isolated people or caregivers — as long as everyone in the bubble agrees. Keep your bubble small and exclusive. You cannot invite other friends, whānau and extended family who are not in your bubble to your home. This advice applies to both Auckland and Waikato. You can get married, or attend a wedding or funeral or tangihanga. Weddings, funerals and tangihanga are limited to 10 people. Keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with. Avoid close physical contact such as hugging, hongi or harirū. Keep track of where you have been. The person organising the wedding, funeral or tangihanga legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. Do not attend a wedding, funeral or tangihanga if you are feeling unwell. Stay home and call Healthline or your doctor for advice. Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Household bubbles at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, you will not be able to visit friends and whānau living in a rest home or aged care facility. We encourage you to connect with them virtually. You can apply for an exemption to visit whānau on compassionate grounds, such as visiting those whānau who are in palliative care. You will need to talk to the healthcare provider about an exemption. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you legally must stay in your household bubble. You cannot invite friends, whānau or extended family to your home. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. If you want to talk to a friend, call or video chat with them. You can drop off groceries to others, but drop the groceries at the door. Always keep a 2 metre distance. Children can travel between the homes of separated parents. If you live alone, you may arrange with another person living alone or a household to be part of your household bubble. This arrangement must be exclusive between you and the other household. Events or gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes birthday parties, weddings, funerals and tangihanga. Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 4 Shared custody and childcare at Alert Level 4 Private social gatherings at Alert Level 4 Household bubbles at Alert Level 4 At Alert Level 4, you will not be able to visit friends and whānau living in a rest home or aged care facility. We encourage you to connect with them virtually. --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Moving, buying and selling your home --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can move house, sell your home, go to open homes and auctions and carry out maintenance and inspections on a property. There are no restrictions on travel. To keep yo u, your whānau and community safe, we encourage you to: stay home and get tested if you feel unwell keep a record of the people you see and the properties you visit wash or sanitise your hands before and after you leave home. If you are a property manager or landlord, you should not visit your tenant's home if they are sick or are self-isolating. At Alert Level 2, you can move house, including between different Alert Level areas.  If you are moving to an area with the same Alert Level settings, you can: ask your friends or whānau to help you move use a moving company. Movers will need to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep a record of where they have been to help with contact tracing. If anyone is unwell or has symptoms of COVID-19, they should stay home and get tested. You can move house between different Alert Level areas. You must carry documents with you to show that you are moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You may also be required to carry evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result administered no more than 72 hours before travel. Learn more about personal travel across an Alert Level boundary At Alert Level 2, you can hold and go to open homes, auctions and private viewings. You can travel to another region that is in Alert Level 1 or 2 to view a property. Open homes, auctions and viewings are limited to 100 people. If you go to an open home, try to keep at least 2 metres away from people you do not know. The agent organising the open home may limit numbers to help with physical distancing. Open homes legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code. Remember to sign in wherever you go, or record your details on the contact tracing register. Do not go to an open home if you are feeling unwell. At Alert Level 2, property inspectors, property valuers, engineers, tradespeople and cleaners can visit your home. If you are a landlord, make sure you get your tenant's consent first. Anyone inspecting or carrying out maintenance on a property needs to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. They also must wear a face covering. Try to limit the number of people visiting your property at the same time to help with physical distancing. We recommend keeping a record of the people who visit your home to help with contact tracing. People should not visit your property if you or any of the occupants are unwell or are self-isolating. At Alert Level 3 you can move house within the Alert Level 3 area if you are moving or relocating home permanently. You should carry documents with you to show that you are moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You can use a moving company. Movers will need to keep 2 metres apart from you. We encourage you to wear a face covering if physical distancing is difficult. Friends and whānau cannot help you move at Alert Level 3, unless they are already part of your bubble. You can move house between different Alert Level areas. You must carry documents with you to show that you are moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You may also be required to carry evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result administered no more than 72 hours before travel. Learn more about personal travel across an Alert Level boundary You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend you delay settlement until Alert Levels 1 or 2. We encourage you to view a property online where possible, rather than in person. One-on-one viewings and pre-settlement inspections may be possible. If you do need to view a property in person, try to organise a time to do this when the residents are not at home to minimise physical contact with others. You must wear a face covering when going to view a property, and scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. You cannot travel to other regions to view a property. Buying a home at Alert Level 3 | settled.govt.nz (external link) (external link) Selling your home at Alert Level 3 | settled.govt.nz (external link) You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. However, we recommend you limit this to urgent repairs. Tradespeople and other workers must wear a face covering when they come into your house. We recommend you move to a different room while they are working to help with physical distancing. Do not invite people to your home for maintenance if you or anyone in your household is unwell. If you are a landlord, you can carry out any property inspections if you can do it safely. Try to keep 2 metres away from your tenant, and wear a face covering when carrying out an inspection. We encourage you to do virtual inspections if the tenant agrees. At the end of the tenancy, the landlord and tenant should not do the final property inspection together as would be usual practice. We recommend tenants take photos of the property’s condition before leaving instead. At Alert Level 3, there will be no face to face hearings. Hearings can happen virtually. Information for landlords and tenants | Tenancy Services (external link) At Alert Level 4, everyone must stay in their current home or accommodation. You can only move house if you: have a court order, or you need to use a temporary or emergency home — for example if you need care while sick or to seek refuge in a women’s refuge accommodation. If you do have to move, you must follow all Alert Level 4 rules. You cannot hire a removal service. If your tenancy is ending during Alert Level 4, talk to your landlord about getting an extension. If you have signed a new tenancy agreement and you are due to move in during Alert Level 4, talk to your landlord about postponing the start date. If you have sold or purchased a property, and settlement was due to occur during Alert Level 4, we encourage you to contact the other party and come to an agreement. You can only move house under extreme circumstances, for example for care while sick or to seek refuge in a women’s refuge accommodation. For any new sale and purchase agreements, we recommend that lawyers insert a clause into the agreement to delay settlement until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or lower. Open homes and auctions cannot take place in person, but they can happen virtually. You can contact a real estate agent by phone, video conference or email, but you cannot meet with them face to face. At Alert Level 4, property inspections cannot take place in person. If you are a landlord, we recommend you wait until Alert Level 1 or 2 to inspect your property or do a virtual inspection if the tenant agrees. You can have a tradesperson come to your home for urgent maintenance or repairs. Non urgent repairs and maintenance cannot happen. At Alert Level 4, there will be no face to face hearings. Hearings can happen virtually. Information for landlords and tenants | Tenancy Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can move house, sell your home, go to open homes and auctions and carry out maintenance and inspections on a property. There are no restrictions on travel. To keep yo u, your whānau and community safe, we encourage you to: stay home and get tested if you feel unwell keep a record of the people you see and the properties you visit wash or sanitise your hands before and after you leave home. If you are a property manager or landlord, you should not visit your tenant's home if they are sick or are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can move house, including between different Alert Level areas.  If you are moving to an area with the same Alert Level settings, you can: ask your friends or whānau to help you move use a moving company. Movers will need to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep a record of where they have been to help with contact tracing. If anyone is unwell or has symptoms of COVID-19, they should stay home and get tested. You can move house between different Alert Level areas. You must carry documents with you to show that you are moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You may also be required to carry evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result administered no more than 72 hours before travel. Learn more about personal travel across an Alert Level boundary At Alert Level 2, you can hold and go to open homes, auctions and private viewings. You can travel to another region that is in Alert Level 1 or 2 to view a property. Open homes, auctions and viewings are limited to 100 people. If you go to an open home, try to keep at least 2 metres away from people you do not know. The agent organising the open home may limit numbers to help with physical distancing. Open homes legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code. Remember to sign in wherever you go, or record your details on the contact tracing register. Do not go to an open home if you are feeling unwell. At Alert Level 2, property inspectors, property valuers, engineers, tradespeople and cleaners can visit your home. If you are a landlord, make sure you get your tenant's consent first. Anyone inspecting or carrying out maintenance on a property needs to follow physical distancing guidelines and keep 2 metres apart from people they do not know. They also must wear a face covering. Try to limit the number of people visiting your property at the same time to help with physical distancing. We recommend keeping a record of the people who visit your home to help with contact tracing. People should not visit your property if you or any of the occupants are unwell or are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 you can move house within the Alert Level 3 area if you are moving or relocating home permanently. You should carry documents with you to show that you are moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You can use a moving company. Movers will need to keep 2 metres apart from you. We encourage you to wear a face covering if physical distancing is difficult. Friends and whānau cannot help you move at Alert Level 3, unless they are already part of your bubble. You can move house between different Alert Level areas. You must carry documents with you to show that you are moving house to help explain your travel. This could be a tenancy or sales agreement or proof of address. You may also be required to carry evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result administered no more than 72 hours before travel. Learn more about personal travel across an Alert Level boundary You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend you delay settlement until Alert Levels 1 or 2. We encourage you to view a property online where possible, rather than in person. One-on-one viewings and pre-settlement inspections may be possible. If you do need to view a property in person, try to organise a time to do this when the residents are not at home to minimise physical contact with others. You must wear a face covering when going to view a property, and scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. You cannot travel to other regions to view a property. Buying a home at Alert Level 3 | settled.govt.nz (external link) (external link) Selling your home at Alert Level 3 | settled.govt.nz (external link) You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. However, we recommend you limit this to urgent repairs. Tradespeople and other workers must wear a face covering when they come into your house. We recommend you move to a different room while they are working to help with physical distancing. Do not invite people to your home for maintenance if you or anyone in your household is unwell. If you are a landlord, you can carry out any property inspections if you can do it safely. Try to keep 2 metres away from your tenant, and wear a face covering when carrying out an inspection. We encourage you to do virtual inspections if the tenant agrees. At the end of the tenancy, the landlord and tenant should not do the final property inspection together as would be usual practice. We recommend tenants take photos of the property’s condition before leaving instead. At Alert Level 3, there will be no face to face hearings. Hearings can happen virtually. Information for landlords and tenants | Tenancy Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, everyone must stay in their current home or accommodation. You can only move house if you: have a court order, or you need to use a temporary or emergency home — for example if you need care while sick or to seek refuge in a women’s refuge accommodation. If you do have to move, you must follow all Alert Level 4 rules. You cannot hire a removal service. If your tenancy is ending during Alert Level 4, talk to your landlord about getting an extension. If you have signed a new tenancy agreement and you are due to move in during Alert Level 4, talk to your landlord about postponing the start date. If you have sold or purchased a property, and settlement was due to occur during Alert Level 4, we encourage you to contact the other party and come to an agreement. You can only move house under extreme circumstances, for example for care while sick or to seek refuge in a women’s refuge accommodation. For any new sale and purchase agreements, we recommend that lawyers insert a clause into the agreement to delay settlement until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or lower. Open homes and auctions cannot take place in person, but they can happen virtually. You can contact a real estate agent by phone, video conference or email, but you cannot meet with them face to face. At Alert Level 4, property inspections cannot take place in person. If you are a landlord, we recommend you wait until Alert Level 1 or 2 to inspect your property or do a virtual inspection if the tenant agrees. You can have a tradesperson come to your home for urgent maintenance or repairs. Non urgent repairs and maintenance cannot happen. At Alert Level 4, there will be no face to face hearings. Hearings can happen virtually. Information for landlords and tenants | Tenancy Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Private social gatherings --- Section Separator --- Northland will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 19 October. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. This will be reviewed on Thursday 21 October. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. There are different restrictions for Auckland and Waikato and Northland. Please read the information on this page carefully to find out which rules apply to you. Find out the Alert Level for your area The rules on this page apply to private social gatherings. A private social gathering is informal and involves getting together with friends and whānau you regularly socialize with. Private social gatherings can include: Birthday parties, stag dos, hens parties, baby showers or a celebration of a significant life event with friends and whānau A social gathering organised through work or school Family dinners Social club get-togethers — for example, book clubs, musical or cultural groups or hobby groups Weddings and civil union ceremonies. Advice for planning and attending a wedding or civil union At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people you can invite to your gathering. You can travel to any region that is in Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a party. There are also no rules around physical distancing. But COVID-19 is still around and we all need to be ready in case it reappears in our community. There are some simple things you can do to stay safe and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Do not go to a party or social gathering if you are unwell or if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Do not host a gathering or party if you or anyone you live with is unwell. Wash and sanitise your hands regularly. Keep a record of the people you come into contact with, and scan in everywhere you go. At Alert Level 2, you can host or attend a gathering of up to 100 people in any defined indoor or outdoor space. The 100 person limit does not include workers providing services to a gathering. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If your venue has multiple defined spaces, you need to make sure the two groups do not mix. This means making sure you have separate entrances for shared areas —  for example bathrooms or counters where people go up to order or pay. Remind your guests to stay home if they are sick. If you are hosting a gathering at your own home, you do not need to keep contact tracing records if everyone at the gathering knows each other. But it is a good idea to keep a guest list to help with contact tracing if it is needed. Your guests do not need to physically distance. Provide hand sanitizer or soap so guests can wash their hands. Serve food and drinks individually rather than having shared platters. Try to avoid shared utensils. If possible, limit the number of people handling or serving food. Everyone working at a social gathering must wear a face covering — this includes caterers, anyone serving food and drinks, performers and other staff such as marriage celebrants. Let your guests know what steps you are taking to make sure your gathering is as safe as possible. You can hire a venue — for example a bar or restaurant for a private event. You can only have 100 guests indoors or outdoors. Staff are not included in the guest limit. You can have guests in both indoor and outdoor spaces, but you need to make sure the two groups do not mix. This means making sure the venue has separate entrances for shared areas —  for example bathrooms or counters where people go up to order or pay. You must have ways for guests to record their visit, such as a QR code poster for them to scan, or another safe and secure way to manually record their contact details. If you have hired the entire venue for your gathering, your guests can move freely and they do not need to be seated or served at tables. People working at the venue should try to keep a safe distance from guests. If you have only hired a room or space at a venue, then your guests will need to keep 1 metre apart from other guests at the venue. Staff at the venue will need to wear face coverings if food and drink is being served. Stay home if you are unwell or if you have been asked to isolate. You do not have to wear a face covering when going to a party or private social gathering, but we encourage you to wear one. Try to keep 1 metre away from people you do not know. Avoid congregating or gathering at entrances or in small shared spaces such as the bathroom. If you need to pay for your food or drinks, use contactless payment options if possible. Limit physical contact with people who are not your close whānau or friends If you are attending a gathering at a public venue, scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Avoid sharing food and drinks with people you do not know. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. People in Auckland can now meet up with friends and whānau who are not in their household. There are some restrictions: You can meet 1 other household at a time, up to a maximum of 10 people. You must meet outside, and maintain physical distancing. You can invite friends and whānau to your home, but you can only meet outside. For example, you can meet in the garden or have a barbecue in your backyard. Friends and whānau not in your household are not allowed inside your home. You can meet different households, but please act responsibly. Find out more about what you can do if you are in Auckland At Alert Level 3, we all need to stay in our bubble. The safest way to celebrate a special occasion with friends and whānau who are outside our bubble is to do it virtually. At Alert Level 4, you legally must stay in your household bubble.  Private social gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes gatherings in your home and in public spaces. You can only celebrate with people in your household bubble. We encourage you to connect virtually with your friends and wh ānau to celebrate special events. --- Section Separator --- Northland will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 19 October. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. This will be reviewed on Thursday 21 October. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. There are different restrictions for Auckland and Waikato and Northland. Please read the information on this page carefully to find out which rules apply to you. Find out the Alert Level for your area --- Section Separator --- The rules on this page apply to private social gatherings. A private social gathering is informal and involves getting together with friends and whānau you regularly socialize with. Private social gatherings can include: Birthday parties, stag dos, hens parties, baby showers or a celebration of a significant life event with friends and whānau A social gathering organised through work or school Family dinners Social club get-togethers — for example, book clubs, musical or cultural groups or hobby groups Weddings and civil union ceremonies. Advice for planning and attending a wedding or civil union --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there are no restrictions on the number of people you can invite to your gathering. You can travel to any region that is in Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a party. There are also no rules around physical distancing. But COVID-19 is still around and we all need to be ready in case it reappears in our community. There are some simple things you can do to stay safe and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Do not go to a party or social gathering if you are unwell or if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Do not host a gathering or party if you or anyone you live with is unwell. Wash and sanitise your hands regularly. Keep a record of the people you come into contact with, and scan in everywhere you go. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can host or attend a gathering of up to 100 people in any defined indoor or outdoor space. The 100 person limit does not include workers providing services to a gathering. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If your venue has multiple defined spaces, you need to make sure the two groups do not mix. This means making sure you have separate entrances for shared areas —  for example bathrooms or counters where people go up to order or pay. Remind your guests to stay home if they are sick. If you are hosting a gathering at your own home, you do not need to keep contact tracing records if everyone at the gathering knows each other. But it is a good idea to keep a guest list to help with contact tracing if it is needed. Your guests do not need to physically distance. Provide hand sanitizer or soap so guests can wash their hands. Serve food and drinks individually rather than having shared platters. Try to avoid shared utensils. If possible, limit the number of people handling or serving food. Everyone working at a social gathering must wear a face covering — this includes caterers, anyone serving food and drinks, performers and other staff such as marriage celebrants. Let your guests know what steps you are taking to make sure your gathering is as safe as possible. You can hire a venue — for example a bar or restaurant for a private event. You can only have 100 guests indoors or outdoors. Staff are not included in the guest limit. You can have guests in both indoor and outdoor spaces, but you need to make sure the two groups do not mix. This means making sure the venue has separate entrances for shared areas —  for example bathrooms or counters where people go up to order or pay. You must have ways for guests to record their visit, such as a QR code poster for them to scan, or another safe and secure way to manually record their contact details. If you have hired the entire venue for your gathering, your guests can move freely and they do not need to be seated or served at tables. People working at the venue should try to keep a safe distance from guests. If you have only hired a room or space at a venue, then your guests will need to keep 1 metre apart from other guests at the venue. Staff at the venue will need to wear face coverings if food and drink is being served. Stay home if you are unwell or if you have been asked to isolate. You do not have to wear a face covering when going to a party or private social gathering, but we encourage you to wear one. Try to keep 1 metre away from people you do not know. Avoid congregating or gathering at entrances or in small shared spaces such as the bathroom. If you need to pay for your food or drinks, use contactless payment options if possible. Limit physical contact with people who are not your close whānau or friends If you are attending a gathering at a public venue, scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Avoid sharing food and drinks with people you do not know. --- Section Separator --- Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. People in Auckland can now meet up with friends and whānau who are not in their household. There are some restrictions: You can meet 1 other household at a time, up to a maximum of 10 people. You must meet outside, and maintain physical distancing. You can invite friends and whānau to your home, but you can only meet outside. For example, you can meet in the garden or have a barbecue in your backyard. Friends and whānau not in your household are not allowed inside your home. You can meet different households, but please act responsibly. Find out more about what you can do if you are in Auckland At Alert Level 3, we all need to stay in our bubble. The safest way to celebrate a special occasion with friends and whānau who are outside our bubble is to do it virtually. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you legally must stay in your household bubble.  Private social gatherings cannot go ahead. This includes gatherings in your home and in public spaces. You can only celebrate with people in your household bubble. We encourage you to connect virtually with your friends and wh ānau to celebrate special events. --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Shopping and services --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all shops and services can operate as normal. Do not shop if you are sick, have COVID-19 symptoms, or have been to self-isolate. All supermarkets, retail stores and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. Remember to scan in and have Bluetooth tracing turned on. You can access the following goods and services at all Alert Levels: Supermarkets Dairies Foodbanks and Meals on Wheels Service stations Pharmacies Some liquor stores Food delivery services — My Food Bag, Hello Fresh Self-service laundries This can be in person, through friends and whānau or getting deliveries to your home. Close contact personal care services can operate at Alert Levels 1 and 2. Personal care services include services like: hairdressers spa and massage services beauty therapy tattoo and piercing services. A cleaner can come into your home at Alert Levels 1 and 2. You can get a tradesperson to come into your home for repairs at Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3. At Alert Level 4, you can only ask a tradesperson to carry out urgent maintenance or repairs. Anyone entering your home will need to follow the rules for the current Alert Level. At Alert Level 2, all shops and services can operate but with extra safety measures. Remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. All customer-facing staff legally must wear a face covering while serving customers. All workers must be physically separated from customers by 2 metres. Working safely at Alert Level 2 All customers legally must wear a face covering in supermarkets and all retail stores. Keep a record of wherever you visit. Follow physical distancing measures. You can go in-store to shop but you will need to keep 2 metres apart from people you do not know. Retail stores and supermarkets may limit the number of people allowed on their premises to help with physical distancing. Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19, or have been told to self-isolate. At Alert Level 2, halal butchers can open and have customers in store. The shop legally must follow physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. Farmers markets can open at Alert Level 2, with some restrictions. There are no restrictions on the number of people that can be at a farmers market. Everyone must stay 2 metres away from people they do not know — if physical distancing is difficult, you may need to limit the numbers, or control entry. Markets must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code, and have an alternative way for customers to record their visit for contact tracing. Everyone — including workers must wear a face covering. If the market sells food and drinks for people to eat on site, everyone must be seated to be served. There is no limit on the number of people that can be seated at any one time for food and drink table service — but tables must be seated 1 metre apart. Hairdressers, barbers and businesses providing personal care services, such as massage or beauty treatments can open but with restrictions. Workers providing these services legally must wear a face covering while at work and keep 2 metres apart from their clients, except for when close physical contact is needed to provide the service. Businesses will also need to make sure they maintain good hygiene practices, and regularly clean and disinfect shared equipment and surfaces. Businesses can continue to provide beauty and personal care services in people's homes. If the person providing the service is unwell, they should not come into your home. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know, for example in waiting areas. If you are sick or feeling unwell, please call and reschedule your appointment. At Alert Level 2, you can use animal and pet care services — for example, doggy daycare, dog grooming, kennels and catteries. You can also sell or adopt pets. Veterinary services can open. You must wear a face covering when visiting a veterinary clinic. More information about animal welfare and pet care services at Alert Level 2 | mpi.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, you can get a cleaner or tradesperson to come into your home. You will need to keep 2 metres away from them at all times, so try to move to a different room while they are working. Try to minimise physical contact by paying for the service online. From 15 September 2021, WoFs, CoF's, vehicle registrations, vehicle certifications, driver licenses and endorsements that expire during the period 27 July 2021 to 30 November 2021 have been extended until 11:59pm 30 November 2021. At Alert Level 2, you can renew your driver license and sit a driving test. Mechanics and vehicle testing stations can also open. Vehicle and driver licensing extensions | Waka Kotahi (external link) At Alert Level 3, supermarkets, dairies, butchers, fishmongers, greengrocers, petrol stations and pharmacies can have customers on their premises. You can go in-store to shop, but you will need keep 2 metres apart from people outside your household and wear a face covering. This means some smaller stores like dairies may have a "one - in, one - out" policy. Food banks will continue to remain open at Alert Level 3. All other retail stores can open for contactless pick-up and delivery. At Alert Level 3, halal butchers can open and have customers in store. You'll need to wear a face covering when going in store to shop. Some butchers may choose to take online or phone orders to help with physical distancing requirements. Most goods ordered online can be delivered in a contactless way to your doorstep. Make sure you keep a 2 metre distance from anyone delivering your order. At Alert Level 3, businesses offering close contact personal care services cannot open. Veterinary services can open. If your pet needs to go to the veterinarian, call ahead to book. Do not go to the veterinarian if you are sick or are self-isolating. You must wear a face covering when visiting a veterinary clinic. Businesses offering pet care services such as dog walking or dog grooming can operate but cannot have customers on site. Arrange to drop off and pick up your pet in a contactless way. More information about animal welfare and pet care services at Alert Level 3 | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Plumbers, electricians, and tradespeople can come into your home for repairs. They will need to follow public health guidelines. Home based cleaners can only work to provide support to vulnerable people. Rubbish collection will continue. Check with your local council for information about recycling. From 15 September 2021, WoFs, CoF's, vehicle registrations, vehicle certifications, driver licenses and endorsements that expire during the period 27 July 2021 to 30 November 2021 have been extended until 11:59pm 30 November 2021. This means you can continue to drive your vehicle to access essential services. Vehicle and driver licensing extensions | Waka Kotahi (external link) At Alert Level 4, supermarkets will continue to stay open to allow people to buy food and groceries. Dairies and petrol stations will also remain open. They can sell food and drinks, but it cannot be prepared, packaged or consumed onsite after ordering. For example, petrol stations cannot sell barista coffee, but they can sell hot pre-packaged pies from a warmer. You can go in-store to shop, but you will need keep 2 metres apart from people outside your household. This means some smaller stores like dairies may have a "one-in, one-out" policy. You legally must wear a face covering when going to the supermarket, or visiting any store that is open to customers during Alert Level 4. Liquor stores will close, unless they are within a Licensing Trust Area with a monopoly. Supermarkets will continue to sell wine and beer. Food delivery from supermarkets, bakeries and uncooked food suppliers is allowed at Alert Level 4. This includes supermarket home delivery, uncooked food parcels from charitable organisations and subscription food boxes — for example, My Food Bag or Hello Fresh. You will not be able to get cooked food delivered — unless you have been referred to a cooked food delivery service by the Ministry of Social Development, a District Health Board, or ACC —  for example, Meals on Wheels. Ordering, payment and delivery must be contactless and meet general health guidelines such as physical distancing and hygiene. At Alert Level 4, halal butchers cannot open to customers, but they can sell uncooked food through contactless delivery. At Alert Level 4, greengrocers and fishmongers cannot open to customers, but they can sell uncooked food through contactless delivery. Food banks will continue to operate at Alert Level 4. Food banks must operate a "one-in, one-out" policy. They can sell food prepared on the premises, but you must take it away to eat later. At Alert Level 4, some retail stores can sell essential non-food consumer products. These include items to help you work or study from home, items to help you remain healthy and safe while staying in your bubble — for example, bedding, whiteware or appliances, medicinal and hygiene products and items that help you stay connected with family and whānau. All orders will be contactless, including payment and delivery. Find out more information about essential non-food consumer products (external link) At Alert Level 4, only businesses that are permitted to have customers on their premises can open for click and collect. These include supermarkets, dairies and hardware stores. Hardware stores can open to trade customers only. At Alert Level 4, businesses offering close contact personal care services cannot open. At Alert Level 4, veterinary services can operate but cannot have customers on the premises. If your pet needs to go to the veterinarian, call ahead and arrange a time to drop off and pick up your pet contactlessly. We recommend you wear a face covering when dropping off and picking up your pet. Businesses offering pet care services, such as dog walking or dog grooming, cannot operate. More information about animal welfare and pet care services at Alert Level 4 | mpi.govt.nz (external link) You can have a tradesperson come to your home to do urgent maintenance. The work must be essential to maintaining the necessities of life, or critical to safety. This includes: building or construction work electrical repairs gas, water or waste water work security services — such as locksmiths Non-urgent repairs or maintenance work should be postponed until Alert Level 4 restrictions have lifted. Tradespeople and other workers must wear a face covering when they come into your home. If you do need a tradesperson to visit, you can keep yourself safe by keeping 2 metres away from them, and reducing physical contact by paying for the service online. Home-based cleaners cannot work. Rubbish collection will continue. Check your local authority website for information about recycling. NZ Post will deliver mail and courier drivers will continue to make deliveries. All deliveries will be contactless. Self-service laundries can stay open, but you need to stay 2 metres away from others. From 15 September 2021, WoFs, CoF's, vehicle registrations, vehicle certifications, driver licenses and endorsements that expire during the period 27 July 2021 to 30 November 2021 have been extended until 11:59pm 30 November 2021. This means you can continue to drive your vehicle to access essential services. Vehicle and driver licensing extensions | Waka Kotahi (external link) If you are sick, or cannot leave home to buy food or essential supplies, you can ask friends, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries for you. Contact your local supermarket or dairy to find out if they are delivering groceries and how to order. Your supermarket may have reserved some priority slots for people who need to use online shopping. You can also use your supermarket's click and collect service, and ask a friend, family member or neighbour to drop off the groceries for you. If you get your groceries delivered, remember to stay 2 metres away from those delivering them, wear a face covering and wash and sanitise your hands after you have put your groceries away. If you are delivering food for a neighbour, friend or family member, remember to stay 2 metres apart and wear a face covering if physical distancing is difficult. All deliveries must be local and contactless. If you need financial help to buy food, you may be able to get help through Work and Income. You do not need to be on a benefit to get help. Work and Income can help with paying for food, accommodation costs, power and gas bills, heating and medical or dental costs. Call 0800 559 009 Online MyMSD (external link) Use the online calculator to check what you might get (external link) . --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all shops and services can operate as normal. Do not shop if you are sick, have COVID-19 symptoms, or have been to self-isolate. All supermarkets, retail stores and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you have been. Remember to scan in and have Bluetooth tracing turned on. You can access the following goods and services at all Alert Levels: Supermarkets Dairies Foodbanks and Meals on Wheels Service stations Pharmacies Some liquor stores Food delivery services — My Food Bag, Hello Fresh Self-service laundries This can be in person, through friends and whānau or getting deliveries to your home. Close contact personal care services can operate at Alert Levels 1 and 2. Personal care services include services like: hairdressers spa and massage services beauty therapy tattoo and piercing services. A cleaner can come into your home at Alert Levels 1 and 2. You can get a tradesperson to come into your home for repairs at Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3. At Alert Level 4, you can only ask a tradesperson to carry out urgent maintenance or repairs. Anyone entering your home will need to follow the rules for the current Alert Level. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, all shops and services can operate but with extra safety measures. Remember to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. All customer-facing staff legally must wear a face covering while serving customers. All workers must be physically separated from customers by 2 metres. Working safely at Alert Level 2 All customers legally must wear a face covering in supermarkets and all retail stores. Keep a record of wherever you visit. Follow physical distancing measures. You can go in-store to shop but you will need to keep 2 metres apart from people you do not know. Retail stores and supermarkets may limit the number of people allowed on their premises to help with physical distancing. Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19, or have been told to self-isolate. At Alert Level 2, halal butchers can open and have customers in store. The shop legally must follow physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. Farmers markets can open at Alert Level 2, with some restrictions. There are no restrictions on the number of people that can be at a farmers market. Everyone must stay 2 metres away from people they do not know — if physical distancing is difficult, you may need to limit the numbers, or control entry. Markets must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code, and have an alternative way for customers to record their visit for contact tracing. Everyone — including workers must wear a face covering. If the market sells food and drinks for people to eat on site, everyone must be seated to be served. There is no limit on the number of people that can be seated at any one time for food and drink table service — but tables must be seated 1 metre apart. Hairdressers, barbers and businesses providing personal care services, such as massage or beauty treatments can open but with restrictions. Workers providing these services legally must wear a face covering while at work and keep 2 metres apart from their clients, except for when close physical contact is needed to provide the service. Businesses will also need to make sure they maintain good hygiene practices, and regularly clean and disinfect shared equipment and surfaces. Businesses can continue to provide beauty and personal care services in people's homes. If the person providing the service is unwell, they should not come into your home. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know, for example in waiting areas. If you are sick or feeling unwell, please call and reschedule your appointment. At Alert Level 2, you can use animal and pet care services — for example, doggy daycare, dog grooming, kennels and catteries. You can also sell or adopt pets. Veterinary services can open. You must wear a face covering when visiting a veterinary clinic. More information about animal welfare and pet care services at Alert Level 2 | mpi.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, you can get a cleaner or tradesperson to come into your home. You will need to keep 2 metres away from them at all times, so try to move to a different room while they are working. Try to minimise physical contact by paying for the service online. From 15 September 2021, WoFs, CoF's, vehicle registrations, vehicle certifications, driver licenses and endorsements that expire during the period 27 July 2021 to 30 November 2021 have been extended until 11:59pm 30 November 2021. At Alert Level 2, you can renew your driver license and sit a driving test. Mechanics and vehicle testing stations can also open. Vehicle and driver licensing extensions | Waka Kotahi (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, supermarkets, dairies, butchers, fishmongers, greengrocers, petrol stations and pharmacies can have customers on their premises. You can go in-store to shop, but you will need keep 2 metres apart from people outside your household and wear a face covering. This means some smaller stores like dairies may have a "one - in, one - out" policy. Food banks will continue to remain open at Alert Level 3. All other retail stores can open for contactless pick-up and delivery. At Alert Level 3, halal butchers can open and have customers in store. You'll need to wear a face covering when going in store to shop. Some butchers may choose to take online or phone orders to help with physical distancing requirements. Most goods ordered online can be delivered in a contactless way to your doorstep. Make sure you keep a 2 metre distance from anyone delivering your order. At Alert Level 3, businesses offering close contact personal care services cannot open. Veterinary services can open. If your pet needs to go to the veterinarian, call ahead to book. Do not go to the veterinarian if you are sick or are self-isolating. You must wear a face covering when visiting a veterinary clinic. Businesses offering pet care services such as dog walking or dog grooming can operate but cannot have customers on site. Arrange to drop off and pick up your pet in a contactless way. More information about animal welfare and pet care services at Alert Level 3 | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Plumbers, electricians, and tradespeople can come into your home for repairs. They will need to follow public health guidelines. Home based cleaners can only work to provide support to vulnerable people. Rubbish collection will continue. Check with your local council for information about recycling. From 15 September 2021, WoFs, CoF's, vehicle registrations, vehicle certifications, driver licenses and endorsements that expire during the period 27 July 2021 to 30 November 2021 have been extended until 11:59pm 30 November 2021. This means you can continue to drive your vehicle to access essential services. Vehicle and driver licensing extensions | Waka Kotahi (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, supermarkets will continue to stay open to allow people to buy food and groceries. Dairies and petrol stations will also remain open. They can sell food and drinks, but it cannot be prepared, packaged or consumed onsite after ordering. For example, petrol stations cannot sell barista coffee, but they can sell hot pre-packaged pies from a warmer. You can go in-store to shop, but you will need keep 2 metres apart from people outside your household. This means some smaller stores like dairies may have a "one-in, one-out" policy. You legally must wear a face covering when going to the supermarket, or visiting any store that is open to customers during Alert Level 4. Liquor stores will close, unless they are within a Licensing Trust Area with a monopoly. Supermarkets will continue to sell wine and beer. Food delivery from supermarkets, bakeries and uncooked food suppliers is allowed at Alert Level 4. This includes supermarket home delivery, uncooked food parcels from charitable organisations and subscription food boxes — for example, My Food Bag or Hello Fresh. You will not be able to get cooked food delivered — unless you have been referred to a cooked food delivery service by the Ministry of Social Development, a District Health Board, or ACC —  for example, Meals on Wheels. Ordering, payment and delivery must be contactless and meet general health guidelines such as physical distancing and hygiene. At Alert Level 4, halal butchers cannot open to customers, but they can sell uncooked food through contactless delivery. At Alert Level 4, greengrocers and fishmongers cannot open to customers, but they can sell uncooked food through contactless delivery. Food banks will continue to operate at Alert Level 4. Food banks must operate a "one-in, one-out" policy. They can sell food prepared on the premises, but you must take it away to eat later. At Alert Level 4, some retail stores can sell essential non-food consumer products. These include items to help you work or study from home, items to help you remain healthy and safe while staying in your bubble — for example, bedding, whiteware or appliances, medicinal and hygiene products and items that help you stay connected with family and whānau. All orders will be contactless, including payment and delivery. Find out more information about essential non-food consumer products (external link) At Alert Level 4, only businesses that are permitted to have customers on their premises can open for click and collect. These include supermarkets, dairies and hardware stores. Hardware stores can open to trade customers only. At Alert Level 4, businesses offering close contact personal care services cannot open. At Alert Level 4, veterinary services can operate but cannot have customers on the premises. If your pet needs to go to the veterinarian, call ahead and arrange a time to drop off and pick up your pet contactlessly. We recommend you wear a face covering when dropping off and picking up your pet. Businesses offering pet care services, such as dog walking or dog grooming, cannot operate. More information about animal welfare and pet care services at Alert Level 4 | mpi.govt.nz (external link) You can have a tradesperson come to your home to do urgent maintenance. The work must be essential to maintaining the necessities of life, or critical to safety. This includes: building or construction work electrical repairs gas, water or waste water work security services — such as locksmiths Non-urgent repairs or maintenance work should be postponed until Alert Level 4 restrictions have lifted. Tradespeople and other workers must wear a face covering when they come into your home. If you do need a tradesperson to visit, you can keep yourself safe by keeping 2 metres away from them, and reducing physical contact by paying for the service online. Home-based cleaners cannot work. Rubbish collection will continue. Check your local authority website for information about recycling. NZ Post will deliver mail and courier drivers will continue to make deliveries. All deliveries will be contactless. Self-service laundries can stay open, but you need to stay 2 metres away from others. From 15 September 2021, WoFs, CoF's, vehicle registrations, vehicle certifications, driver licenses and endorsements that expire during the period 27 July 2021 to 30 November 2021 have been extended until 11:59pm 30 November 2021. This means you can continue to drive your vehicle to access essential services. Vehicle and driver licensing extensions | Waka Kotahi (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are sick, or cannot leave home to buy food or essential supplies, you can ask friends, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries for you. Contact your local supermarket or dairy to find out if they are delivering groceries and how to order. Your supermarket may have reserved some priority slots for people who need to use online shopping. You can also use your supermarket's click and collect service, and ask a friend, family member or neighbour to drop off the groceries for you. If you get your groceries delivered, remember to stay 2 metres away from those delivering them, wear a face covering and wash and sanitise your hands after you have put your groceries away. If you are delivering food for a neighbour, friend or family member, remember to stay 2 metres apart and wear a face covering if physical distancing is difficult. All deliveries must be local and contactless. --- Section Separator --- If you need financial help to buy food, you may be able to get help through Work and Income. You do not need to be on a benefit to get help. Work and Income can help with paying for food, accommodation costs, power and gas bills, heating and medical or dental costs. Call 0800 559 009 Online MyMSD (external link) Use the online calculator to check what you might get (external link) . --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Sports and recreation --- Section Separator --- Northland will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 19 October. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. This will be reviewed on Thursday 21 October. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. There are different restrictions for Auckland and Waikato and Northland. Please read the information on this page carefully to find out which rules apply to you. Find out the Alert Level for your area At Alert Level 1, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities. There are no limits on the number of people you can exercise with. Community sports and large sporting events and tournaments can go ahead. There is no limit on the number of spectators. All indoor and outdoor recreation facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, climbing walls, driving ranges and skate parks can open. If you are unwell, you should stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still continue to keep track of where you go, wash your hands before and after touching shared equipment and surfaces, and stay home if sick. These actions help to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community. All sport and recreation event organisers, including voluntary and not-for-profit organisations and businesses providing facilities or venues for sports activities legally must display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes to help with contact tracing. At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you are sick, stay home. When exercising in public, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know if possible. You can do activities like: walking, biking and hunting, including on public conservation land — overnight trips are okay swimming at a public swimming pool, but there will be restrictions going to the gym, but there will be restrictions boating and motorised watersports. When exercising outside, try to record the route you took and when. You can exercise with others in a group. Someone in the group should keep a record of the people you're with. Using DOC facilities at Alert Level 2 (external link) At Alert Level 2, p ublic parks and playgrounds are open and families can get together for their children to play. You can drive to play in a public space, for example a beach or a park. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know. Wash or sanitise your hands after using shared equipment, and encourage tamariki (children) to do the same. At Alert Level 2, indoor sports facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, dance studios and health clubs can open, but with extra safety measures. You will need to keep 2 metres apart from others. Facilities may restrict numbers to help with physical distancing. Wipe down and clean shared gym equipment after you use it. If you use a recreation facility, remember to sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Personal trainers or coaches are encouraged to wear a face covering as they are in contact with many people. All workers must keep 2 metres apart from customers and clients using the services. You should wear a face covering whenever possible, but it is not a requirement when exercising and playing sports. Keep a record of wherever you visit. Follow physical distancing measures. At Alert Level 2, team or community sporting events including those that take place at an event facility — for example at a stadium or arena are considered a gathering and the 100-person limit applies. This includes both indoor and outdoor events. If you are organising a sports event, make sure everyone records their visit. You do not need to wear a face covering when participating in team sports. Alert Level 2 rules for social gatherings At Alert Level 2, you can participate in close-contact sports —  for example, boxing, wrestling or martial arts. The person organising the activity needs to make sure they keep a record of all the people participating and spectating. If you are playing a close contact sport, you may want to modify activities or exercises to limit physical contact. Try to keep 2 metres away from others when you are not participating in the sport or activity. Try not to share equipment — for example boxing gloves, hit pats, punching bags. If you do need to share equipment, wash or sanitise it before and after you use it. You do not need to wear a face covering when playing sport. We encourage instructors and trainers to wear one, if possible. At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers. You also need to follow the whitebait regulations. Ski fields can open at Alert Level 2, and you can travel anywhere within an Alert Level 1 or 2 region to go skiing or snowboarding. We encourage you to wear a face covering in places where it is difficult to keep a safe distance from others — for example in lift lines, on the chairlift and in the cafe area. There are no restrictions on the number of people that can be at a skifield, but you may choose to limit numbers to help with physical distancing. Skifields must follow the public health guidelines for businesses. This includes: Customer facing staff in indoor areas must wear a face covering — for example, cafes, retail or ski hire. Displaying an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code, and having an alternate way for customers to record their visit. Limiting indoor cafes and restaurants to 100 people — people must be seated to be served. No more than 100 people in outdoor seating areas — people must be seated to eat and drink. Keeping to physical distancing guidelines — customers must stay 1 metre apart in cafes and restaurants, and 2 metres apart in retail areas — for example at ski hire. Keeping up good hygiene and cleaning practices. Wear a face covering wherever possible. You must wear a face covering in all indoor areas — for example, in cafes or in the retail store. You can take your mask off to eat and drink. If you are using mountain transport — for example, buses or shuttles, you need to wear a face covering. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or record your details for contact tracing. Follow the physical distancing rules when using indoor areas. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know. Wash or sanitise your hands after using shared or rental equipment. Stay home if you are unwell. Follow the advice of the ski field — they may have additional rules to keep you safe. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. Elite, professional and semi-professional sporting games can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. There are no restrictions on the number of spectators that can attend a sporting event, for example at a stadium or arena — as long as everyone can safely stay 1 metre apart. You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a sports game or tournament. If you are travelling to an Alert Level 1 region to watch or take part in a sports game or tournament, make sure you do it in a safe way. This includes: keeping a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used wearing a face covering on public transport services and flights keeping a 2 metre distance from people you do not know regularly washing or sanitising your hands. Auckland, Northland and parts of Waikato are at Alert Level 3. For some recreation activities, there are different restrictions for Auckland, and Waikato and Northland. Do not go out to exercise if you have cold or flu symptoms, or if you have been asked to isolate. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Aucklanders can travel anywhere within the Auckland region for outdoor exercise and recreation. You cannot stay overnight at your bach, holiday home or at a campground. You also cannot travel to Waiheke Island or Great Barrier Island (Aotea Island) for recreation unless you are a resident there. All recreational activities must be day trips only. People in Auckland can now participate in a wider range of recreation activities that were previously not permitted at Alert Level 3. These include: water-based activities involving sailing boats, motorised boats or other craft like jet skis, and scuba diving driving to the beach, even if it is not local outdoor exercise classes —  for example, yoga or bootcamp, if they do not involve any physical contact with others fishing from a motorised boat or vessel. Commercial boating companies should not operate. Outdoor exercise classes can take place with a maximum of 10 people from 10 households. The 10-person limit includes the instructor taking the class. Everyone must stay 2 metres apart. We encourage you to wear a face covering when you are not exercising. You will not be able to use any indoor changing facilities. Outdoor playgrounds can open. Gyms and indoor recreation facilities must remain closed. Auckland Council facilities open at Step 1 (external link) At Alert Level 3, you can exercise in your local area on your own, or with people in your household bubble. If you are exercising outside, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people who are not in your bubble. The most important thing is to stay safe and stay close to home. Go to your local park or beach, not your favourite one. You cannot stay overnight at your bach or holiday home. Do low-risk activities so you do not need rescuing or medical care. If you are in an Alert Level 3 area in Waikato, you can f ish from a wharf or the shore but you cannot cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. You can fish from a kayak if you stay within 200 metres of the shore. Keep it local — go to your nearest fishing spot, not your favourite fishing spot. You can also fish for whitebait during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and remember boating is not allowed. You must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including: only fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge not entering the water not using a boat to fish. This advice applies to Auckland, Northland and Waikato. At Alert Level 3, you can do more sports and recreation activities if you are experienced. These include the following: Surfing — if you are not experienced, do not surf. Tramping — is okay for day walks on easy trails. Remember to keep your distance from other people. DOC huts and campsites are closed. Do not go back-country tramping. Mountain biking — is okay on easy trails if you are experienced and know the trail. Choose a trail close to home. Do not go on tracks that are grade 3 or above. Swimming — in safe spots. Do not swim far from shore. Horse riding — if you are an experienced rider and it is low risk. Riding your motorbike — as long as you stay local. Golf courses, tennis courts, bowling greens and croquet lawns can open to the public, but people will not be able to use the indoor facilities. You should stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. You should stay in areas readily accessible from your home, either on foot or by vehicle, and you must stick to your bubble. You should not go on an overnight hunting trip. You can only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. If you are out hunting, you still need to follow the local regulations. Some trails or parks may be closed. Check with your local council to see what trails or parks are open before heading out. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it is close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. At Alert Level 3, all indoor recreation facilities such as gyms and swimming pools must close. Personal trainers and exercise instructors can offer virtual sessions that can be done from home. At Alert Level 4, you can exercise in your local area on your own, or with people in your household bubble. Stick to simple outdoor exercise, and avoid activities where you can get injured or lost. For example, do not go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping. It is important emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. You can drive to a place to exercise — for example to a park but you should stay close to where you live. Do not travel too far. You can protect yourself and your whānau by: using sanitiser or washing your hands with soap and water before you leave home and after you arrive home keeping 2 metres away from anyone outside of your household bubble when out exercising. You do not need to wear a face covering when exercising, but we encourage you to take one with you if physical distancing is difficult. Make sure you: do not meet people who are not in your bubble to exercise avoid touching and using high touch areas like park benches or gates tell someone in your bubble where you are going and how long you plan to be gone for. Take a mobile phone with you so you can be contacted or contact others if you need to. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. If you have been asked to self-isolate by public health officials, you cannot leave home to exercise. The people you live with are allowed to leave home to exercise if they do not have any COVID-19 symptoms. Make sure they keep 2 metres away from others and avoid any physical contact. If you are unsure if you can leave home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you have a dog, try walking it around the block instead of driving to a park. Walk your dog on a leash so you can keep a safe distance from others. Your dog is part of your household bubble. This means your dog should only be walked with people who are in your bubble. Do not meet up with friends and whānau outside of your bubble to walk your dog together. Professional dog walking services cannot operate during Alert Level 4. We recommend you do not go horse riding to reduce the risk of an accident. If you do need to ride your horse, do it with people from your household bubble, and within the boundaries of the property where it is kept. Do not transport your horse by float to ride somewhere else. You should also use your own grooming kit, tack and other equipment to reduce the risk of spreading COVID-19. You can travel to care for your horse, for example to provide it with food and water, if there is no alternative and you are complying with any region-specific travel measures. We recommend you carry proof of your reason to travel, for example documentation showing where the horse is kept. You can travel to look after your bees if your hives are not on the property where you live, and you comply with any region-specific travel measures. Try to limit your travel for urgent welfare reasons, for example to manage disease. Use your own equipment to reduce the risk of spreading COVID-19. Information about looking after your animals and pets | mpi.govt.nz (external link) You can fish from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. Keep it local — go to your nearest fishing spot, not your favourite fishing spot. At Alert Level 4, you can fish for whitebait during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and remember boating is not allowed. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including: only fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge not entering the water not using a boat to fish. --- Section Separator --- Northland will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 19 October. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. This will be reviewed on Thursday 21 October. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. There are different restrictions for Auckland and Waikato and Northland. Please read the information on this page carefully to find out which rules apply to you. Find out the Alert Level for your area --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities. There are no limits on the number of people you can exercise with. Community sports and large sporting events and tournaments can go ahead. There is no limit on the number of spectators. All indoor and outdoor recreation facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, climbing walls, driving ranges and skate parks can open. If you are unwell, you should stay home. Even if you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you should still continue to keep track of where you go, wash your hands before and after touching shared equipment and surfaces, and stay home if sick. These actions help to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community. All sport and recreation event organisers, including voluntary and not-for-profit organisations and businesses providing facilities or venues for sports activities legally must display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes to help with contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you are sick, stay home. When exercising in public, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know if possible. You can do activities like: walking, biking and hunting, including on public conservation land — overnight trips are okay swimming at a public swimming pool, but there will be restrictions going to the gym, but there will be restrictions boating and motorised watersports. When exercising outside, try to record the route you took and when. You can exercise with others in a group. Someone in the group should keep a record of the people you're with. Using DOC facilities at Alert Level 2 (external link) At Alert Level 2, p ublic parks and playgrounds are open and families can get together for their children to play. You can drive to play in a public space, for example a beach or a park. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know. Wash or sanitise your hands after using shared equipment, and encourage tamariki (children) to do the same. At Alert Level 2, indoor sports facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, dance studios and health clubs can open, but with extra safety measures. You will need to keep 2 metres apart from others. Facilities may restrict numbers to help with physical distancing. Wipe down and clean shared gym equipment after you use it. If you use a recreation facility, remember to sign in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Personal trainers or coaches are encouraged to wear a face covering as they are in contact with many people. All workers must keep 2 metres apart from customers and clients using the services. You should wear a face covering whenever possible, but it is not a requirement when exercising and playing sports. Keep a record of wherever you visit. Follow physical distancing measures. At Alert Level 2, team or community sporting events including those that take place at an event facility — for example at a stadium or arena are considered a gathering and the 100-person limit applies. This includes both indoor and outdoor events. If you are organising a sports event, make sure everyone records their visit. You do not need to wear a face covering when participating in team sports. Alert Level 2 rules for social gatherings At Alert Level 2, you can participate in close-contact sports —  for example, boxing, wrestling or martial arts. The person organising the activity needs to make sure they keep a record of all the people participating and spectating. If you are playing a close contact sport, you may want to modify activities or exercises to limit physical contact. Try to keep 2 metres away from others when you are not participating in the sport or activity. Try not to share equipment — for example boxing gloves, hit pats, punching bags. If you do need to share equipment, wash or sanitise it before and after you use it. You do not need to wear a face covering when playing sport. We encourage instructors and trainers to wear one, if possible. At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers. You also need to follow the whitebait regulations. Ski fields can open at Alert Level 2, and you can travel anywhere within an Alert Level 1 or 2 region to go skiing or snowboarding. We encourage you to wear a face covering in places where it is difficult to keep a safe distance from others — for example in lift lines, on the chairlift and in the cafe area. There are no restrictions on the number of people that can be at a skifield, but you may choose to limit numbers to help with physical distancing. Skifields must follow the public health guidelines for businesses. This includes: Customer facing staff in indoor areas must wear a face covering — for example, cafes, retail or ski hire. Displaying an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code, and having an alternate way for customers to record their visit. Limiting indoor cafes and restaurants to 100 people — people must be seated to be served. No more than 100 people in outdoor seating areas — people must be seated to eat and drink. Keeping to physical distancing guidelines — customers must stay 1 metre apart in cafes and restaurants, and 2 metres apart in retail areas — for example at ski hire. Keeping up good hygiene and cleaning practices. Wear a face covering wherever possible. You must wear a face covering in all indoor areas — for example, in cafes or in the retail store. You can take your mask off to eat and drink. If you are using mountain transport — for example, buses or shuttles, you need to wear a face covering. Scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or record your details for contact tracing. Follow the physical distancing rules when using indoor areas. Try to keep 2 metres away from people you do not know. Wash or sanitise your hands after using shared or rental equipment. Stay home if you are unwell. Follow the advice of the ski field — they may have additional rules to keep you safe. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. Elite, professional and semi-professional sporting games can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. There are no restrictions on the number of spectators that can attend a sporting event, for example at a stadium or arena — as long as everyone can safely stay 1 metre apart. You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a sports game or tournament. If you are travelling to an Alert Level 1 region to watch or take part in a sports game or tournament, make sure you do it in a safe way. This includes: keeping a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used wearing a face covering on public transport services and flights keeping a 2 metre distance from people you do not know regularly washing or sanitising your hands. --- Section Separator --- Auckland, Northland and parts of Waikato are at Alert Level 3. For some recreation activities, there are different restrictions for Auckland, and Waikato and Northland. Do not go out to exercise if you have cold or flu symptoms, or if you have been asked to isolate. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Aucklanders can travel anywhere within the Auckland region for outdoor exercise and recreation. You cannot stay overnight at your bach, holiday home or at a campground. You also cannot travel to Waiheke Island or Great Barrier Island (Aotea Island) for recreation unless you are a resident there. All recreational activities must be day trips only. People in Auckland can now participate in a wider range of recreation activities that were previously not permitted at Alert Level 3. These include: water-based activities involving sailing boats, motorised boats or other craft like jet skis, and scuba diving driving to the beach, even if it is not local outdoor exercise classes —  for example, yoga or bootcamp, if they do not involve any physical contact with others fishing from a motorised boat or vessel. Commercial boating companies should not operate. Outdoor exercise classes can take place with a maximum of 10 people from 10 households. The 10-person limit includes the instructor taking the class. Everyone must stay 2 metres apart. We encourage you to wear a face covering when you are not exercising. You will not be able to use any indoor changing facilities. Outdoor playgrounds can open. Gyms and indoor recreation facilities must remain closed. Auckland Council facilities open at Step 1 (external link) At Alert Level 3, you can exercise in your local area on your own, or with people in your household bubble. If you are exercising outside, try to keep a 2 metre distance from people who are not in your bubble. The most important thing is to stay safe and stay close to home. Go to your local park or beach, not your favourite one. You cannot stay overnight at your bach or holiday home. Do low-risk activities so you do not need rescuing or medical care. If you are in an Alert Level 3 area in Waikato, you can f ish from a wharf or the shore but you cannot cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. You can fish from a kayak if you stay within 200 metres of the shore. Keep it local — go to your nearest fishing spot, not your favourite fishing spot. You can also fish for whitebait during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and remember boating is not allowed. You must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including: only fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge not entering the water not using a boat to fish. This advice applies to Auckland, Northland and Waikato. At Alert Level 3, you can do more sports and recreation activities if you are experienced. These include the following: Surfing — if you are not experienced, do not surf. Tramping — is okay for day walks on easy trails. Remember to keep your distance from other people. DOC huts and campsites are closed. Do not go back-country tramping. Mountain biking — is okay on easy trails if you are experienced and know the trail. Choose a trail close to home. Do not go on tracks that are grade 3 or above. Swimming — in safe spots. Do not swim far from shore. Horse riding — if you are an experienced rider and it is low risk. Riding your motorbike — as long as you stay local. Golf courses, tennis courts, bowling greens and croquet lawns can open to the public, but people will not be able to use the indoor facilities. You should stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. You should stay in areas readily accessible from your home, either on foot or by vehicle, and you must stick to your bubble. You should not go on an overnight hunting trip. You can only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. If you are out hunting, you still need to follow the local regulations. Some trails or parks may be closed. Check with your local council to see what trails or parks are open before heading out. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it is close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. At Alert Level 3, all indoor recreation facilities such as gyms and swimming pools must close. Personal trainers and exercise instructors can offer virtual sessions that can be done from home. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you can exercise in your local area on your own, or with people in your household bubble. Stick to simple outdoor exercise, and avoid activities where you can get injured or lost. For example, do not go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping. It is important emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. You can drive to a place to exercise — for example to a park but you should stay close to where you live. Do not travel too far. You can protect yourself and your whānau by: using sanitiser or washing your hands with soap and water before you leave home and after you arrive home keeping 2 metres away from anyone outside of your household bubble when out exercising. You do not need to wear a face covering when exercising, but we encourage you to take one with you if physical distancing is difficult. Make sure you: do not meet people who are not in your bubble to exercise avoid touching and using high touch areas like park benches or gates tell someone in your bubble where you are going and how long you plan to be gone for. Take a mobile phone with you so you can be contacted or contact others if you need to. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. If you have been asked to self-isolate by public health officials, you cannot leave home to exercise. The people you live with are allowed to leave home to exercise if they do not have any COVID-19 symptoms. Make sure they keep 2 metres away from others and avoid any physical contact. If you are unsure if you can leave home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you have a dog, try walking it around the block instead of driving to a park. Walk your dog on a leash so you can keep a safe distance from others. Your dog is part of your household bubble. This means your dog should only be walked with people who are in your bubble. Do not meet up with friends and whānau outside of your bubble to walk your dog together. Professional dog walking services cannot operate during Alert Level 4. We recommend you do not go horse riding to reduce the risk of an accident. If you do need to ride your horse, do it with people from your household bubble, and within the boundaries of the property where it is kept. Do not transport your horse by float to ride somewhere else. You should also use your own grooming kit, tack and other equipment to reduce the risk of spreading COVID-19. You can travel to care for your horse, for example to provide it with food and water, if there is no alternative and you are complying with any region-specific travel measures. We recommend you carry proof of your reason to travel, for example documentation showing where the horse is kept. You can travel to look after your bees if your hives are not on the property where you live, and you comply with any region-specific travel measures. Try to limit your travel for urgent welfare reasons, for example to manage disease. Use your own equipment to reduce the risk of spreading COVID-19. Information about looking after your animals and pets | mpi.govt.nz (external link) You can fish from a wharf or the shore, but do not cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. Keep it local — go to your nearest fishing spot, not your favourite fishing spot. At Alert Level 4, you can fish for whitebait during the whitebaiting season. Fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and remember boating is not allowed. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including: only fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge not entering the water not using a boat to fish. --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Home Activities Weddings and civil unions --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is no limit on the number of people who can attend a wedding, civil union or reception. Do not go to a wedding or civil union ceremony if you are unwell or have been asked to self-isolate. This includes the couple, attendees, and anyone working or involved in the ceremony or reception. At Alert Level 2, there are different rules on the number of people who can attend a wedding or civil union ceremony, depending on if the venue is indoors or outdoors. A maximum of 100 people can attend a wedding or civil union ceremony in any indoor or outdoor defined space. Defined spaces (external link) The gathering limits do not include people working at the wedding — for example, servers. If you are serving food or drinks, provide table service if you can. Try to seat extended household bubbles together at one table. Serve food individually if possible so guests do not have to share utensils or plates. People working at a wedding or civil union ceremony must wear a face covering and should try to keep a safe distance from the guests. Guests do not have to wear a face covering, but we encourage everyone to wear one. If you are planning to host a wedding reception or party at a restaurant, pub or other public venue, please follow the establishment’s safety measures. Your guests can dance, sing or perform at the wedding or civil union service. People should try to keep a safe distance from each other. Do not attend a wedding or civil union ceremony if you are feeling unwell. If there are people at the wedding you do not know, make sure you scan the QR code or give your contact details to the organiser. This is to help support contact tracing. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau are close friends. Keep up good health behaviours like regular handwashing and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. Your host should provide hand sanitiser around the venue and make sure there is plenty of soap available for everyone to wash their hands. Try not to share food or drinks. At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a wedding or civil union. If the wedding or civil union is in an Alert Level 2 region, the gathering limits apply. If you are travelling to an Alert Level 1 region to attend a wedding or civil union, make sure you do it in a safe way. This includes: keeping a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used wearing a face covering on public transport services and flights keeping a 2 metre distance from people you do not know regularly washing or sanitising your hands. You can travel into and out of an Alert Level 3 area (in 1 trip) to attend a wedding or civil union service. Your place of departure or destination cannot be in the Alert Level 3 area, and your travel must be necessary to get to the service. You must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency, to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 3 guidance. At Alert Level 3, you can get married but the wedding or civil union ceremony must be limited to 10 people. The 10 person limit does not include: the person conducting the wedding or civil union anyone working at the service — for example, a photographer. This means you can have a total of 15 people at your wedding or civil union ceremony — 10 guests, including the couple getting married and 5 workers. You can serve food or drink but guests must be seated to be served. If you are attending a wedding or civil union, we recommend you: keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with avoid physical contact with people outside your bubble, including harirū, hongi, kissing and hugging. Do not attend a wedding or civil union if you are unwell. You can travel to attend a wedding or civil union ceremony in the same or neighbouring region within the Alert Level 3 area. Gathering together for weddings and civil union ceremonies is not allowed at Alert Level 4. We recommend you delay your wedding or civil union ceremony until Alert Level 4 restrictions ease. All venues must have ways for people, including staff and guests, to record their visit. You can do this by displaying a QR code for your venue and asking people to scan in. If your wedding or reception is at a private home, you do not need to keep a record of the people attending if everyone knows each other. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is no limit on the number of people who can attend a wedding, civil union or reception. Do not go to a wedding or civil union ceremony if you are unwell or have been asked to self-isolate. This includes the couple, attendees, and anyone working or involved in the ceremony or reception. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, there are different rules on the number of people who can attend a wedding or civil union ceremony, depending on if the venue is indoors or outdoors. A maximum of 100 people can attend a wedding or civil union ceremony in any indoor or outdoor defined space. Defined spaces (external link) The gathering limits do not include people working at the wedding — for example, servers. If you are serving food or drinks, provide table service if you can. Try to seat extended household bubbles together at one table. Serve food individually if possible so guests do not have to share utensils or plates. People working at a wedding or civil union ceremony must wear a face covering and should try to keep a safe distance from the guests. Guests do not have to wear a face covering, but we encourage everyone to wear one. If you are planning to host a wedding reception or party at a restaurant, pub or other public venue, please follow the establishment’s safety measures. Your guests can dance, sing or perform at the wedding or civil union service. People should try to keep a safe distance from each other. Do not attend a wedding or civil union ceremony if you are feeling unwell. If there are people at the wedding you do not know, make sure you scan the QR code or give your contact details to the organiser. This is to help support contact tracing. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau are close friends. Keep up good health behaviours like regular handwashing and coughing or sneezing into your elbow. Your host should provide hand sanitiser around the venue and make sure there is plenty of soap available for everyone to wash their hands. Try not to share food or drinks. At Alert Level 2, you can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2 to attend a wedding or civil union. If the wedding or civil union is in an Alert Level 2 region, the gathering limits apply. If you are travelling to an Alert Level 1 region to attend a wedding or civil union, make sure you do it in a safe way. This includes: keeping a record of who you have been in contact with, and what transport services you used wearing a face covering on public transport services and flights keeping a 2 metre distance from people you do not know regularly washing or sanitising your hands. You can travel into and out of an Alert Level 3 area (in 1 trip) to attend a wedding or civil union service. Your place of departure or destination cannot be in the Alert Level 3 area, and your travel must be necessary to get to the service. You must not stop, so far as reasonably practicable, on your journey. You can stop in an emergency, to use a toilet or get petrol, but you must follow Alert Level 3 guidance. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you can get married but the wedding or civil union ceremony must be limited to 10 people. The 10 person limit does not include: the person conducting the wedding or civil union anyone working at the service — for example, a photographer. This means you can have a total of 15 people at your wedding or civil union ceremony — 10 guests, including the couple getting married and 5 workers. You can serve food or drink but guests must be seated to be served. If you are attending a wedding or civil union, we recommend you: keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with avoid physical contact with people outside your bubble, including harirū, hongi, kissing and hugging. Do not attend a wedding or civil union if you are unwell. You can travel to attend a wedding or civil union ceremony in the same or neighbouring region within the Alert Level 3 area. --- Section Separator --- Gathering together for weddings and civil union ceremonies is not allowed at Alert Level 4. We recommend you delay your wedding or civil union ceremony until Alert Level 4 restrictions ease. --- Section Separator --- All venues must have ways for people, including staff and guests, to record their visit. You can do this by displaying a QR code for your venue and asking people to scan in. If your wedding or reception is at a private home, you do not need to keep a record of the people attending if everyone knows each other. --- Section Separator --- Access to food or essential items Cafes, bars, restaurants and night clubs Education Events and entertainment Faith-based gatherings Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Household bubbles Meeting friends and whānau Moving, buying and selling your home Private social gatherings Shared custody and childcare Shopping and services Sports and recreation Weddings and civil unions
Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. At Alert Level 2 there is a low risk of community transmission. We need your support to protect New Zealand and eliminate COVID-19. At Alert Level 3, there is medium risk of community transmission with active, but managed, clusters. Make sure you follow all the public health rules to protect yourself, your whānau and our communities. At Alert Level 4, the virus is not contained and there is sustained and intensive community transmission. Make sure you follow all the public health rules to protect yourself, your whānau and our communities. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Information about our Alert Level system, and summaries of the measures that may be applied at each Alert Level. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups. --- Section Separator --- Latest news and updates about New Zealand's response to COVID-19. The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. At Alert Level 2 there is a low risk of community transmission. We need your support to protect New Zealand and eliminate COVID-19. At Alert Level 3, there is medium risk of community transmission with active, but managed, clusters. Make sure you follow all the public health rules to protect yourself, your whānau and our communities. At Alert Level 4, the virus is not contained and there is sustained and intensive community transmission. Make sure you follow all the public health rules to protect yourself, your whānau and our communities. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Information about our Alert Level system, and summaries of the measures that may be applied at each Alert Level. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups.
Home Alert Levels and updates About the Alert System --- Section Separator --- The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of control measures in New Zealand and overseas, or the application of Alert Levels at different times, for example, the application may be different depending on if NZ is moving down or up Alert Levels). Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. COVID-19 Alert Level system tables Likely the disease is not contained. There is sustained and intensive community transmission. Outbreaks are widespread. Stay home in your bubble. No travel is allowed except for necessities or to undertake safe recreational activities. You must work and learn from home. No gatherings are allowed. All public and education facilities close. If you work for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. Businesses must close except for necessities (for example, supermarkets, pharmacies, petrol stations) and lifeline utilities. Green grocers, butchers, bakeries, and fishmongers can sell uncooked food items online and must deliver all orders. As in Alert Level 2, you legally must wear a face covering in some settings. It is recommended you wear a face covering whenever you leave the house. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities as well as reprioritisation of healthcare services is possible. Members of a household or shared bubble may view or accompany the deceased in a funeral home, cemetery or faith-based institution subject to strict conditions. Detailed information about Alert Level 4 Medium risk of community transmission – active but managed clusters. There are multiple cases of community transmission. There are multiple active clusters in multiple regions. Stay home and keep your bubble small. You can expand to reconnect with close family/whānau, enable caregiving, or support isolated people. This extended bubble legally must remain exclusive. Travel is still restricted, so stay local. Inter-regional travel is highly limited with limited permissions. You can travel for work, school, to pick up necessities and goods purchased in a contactless way or undertake low-risk recreational activities. Work and learn from home if you can. Only people who cannot work from home should return to businesses that can safely open under Alert Level 3. As at Alert Level 2, you legally must wear a face covering in some settings. It is recommended you wear a face covering whenever you leave the house. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed for weddings and civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga (exclusive of staff). Up to 5 staff may be present. Food and drink can be served to seated guests. Physical distancing and record keeping are legally required. When you leave home, keep a 2-metre distance from others when in public or 1-metre in controlled environments like workplaces, where practical. Customers are only allowed inside specific businesses: supermarkets, banks, primary produce retailers, pharmacies, petrol stations or hardware stores providing goods to trade customers, or if it is an emergency or critical situation. Other businesses can open if they trade in a contactless way. Public facilities remain closed. Early childhood centres and schools will open for students up to Year 10 for those who cannot learn from home. Healthcare services should use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. People at high risk of severe illness, such as older people and those with existing medical conditions, are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. You may choose to work. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 Low risk of community transmission within applied area. There could be limited community transmission. There are active clusters in more than 1 region. You can connect with friends and whānau in person, socialise in groups and go shopping and travel domestically, if following public health guidance. You can return to the place where you work or learn but alternative ways of working are still encouraged. Businesses, schools, early learning services, tertiary education providers and public facilities, such as museums, libraries and pools can now all open with additional health measures in place. Gatherings of up to 100 people are allowed in a defined space, including weddings, civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga. Mandatory record keeping (as in Alert Level 1) and physical distancing are legally required. Hospitality businesses legally must keep groups of customers separated and seated, with a maximum of 100 people in a defined space. Event facilities, including cinemas, stadiums, concert venues and casinos, can open. Physical distancing of 1 metre must be applied — this will determine the maximum capacity of the event. Health and disability care services can operate as normally as possible. Keep 2 metres apart from people you do not know in public and places like retail stores, libraries, gyms, and museums. Keep 1 metre apart from people in other places like office buildings and factories, and in places where there is a cap on numbers, like cinemas and hospitality. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 (for example, those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and older people) are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home, unless fully vaccinated. You may work, if you agree with your employer that you can do so safely. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, record keeping, and – where practical – physical distancing. Gyms — 2m physical distancing; outdoor teams sport — no physical distancing. You legally must wear a face covering if you are aged 12 and over when: using public transport, airplanes (including in departure points such as train/bus stations and airports) and in a taxi or ride-share vehicle visiting a healthcare or aged care facility (other than for a patient) inside retail businesses, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, shopping malls, indoor marketplaces, takeaway food stores and public venues — such as museums and libraries visiting the public areas within courts and tribunals, local and central Government agencies, and social service providers with customer service counters providing services while on site in a home or places of residence (except for providing childcare). You legally must wear a face covering if you work: as a driver of a taxi or ride-share vehicle at close contact businesses, for example barbers, beauticians and hairdressers in a public facing role at a hospitality venue, for example a cafe, restaurant, bar or nightclub at retail businesses, such as supermarkets, shopping malls, indoor marketplaces, takeaway food stores in the public areas of courts and tribunals, local and central Government agencies, and social service providers with customer service counters at indoor public facilities, for example libraries and museums (but not swimming pools). Detailed information about Alert Level 2 The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. There could be sporadic imported cases. There could be isolated local transmission in New Zealand. All businesses, facilities, schools, education providers and workplaces can open. NZ COVID Tracer QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport. The following places legally must have systems and processes to ensure visitors keep a record of where they have been (whether via the NZ COVID Tracer app or otherwise), including healthcare facilities, aged care facilities, close-contact businesses, hospitality venues, public facilities, exercise facilities and social gatherings such as weddings, civil union services, funerals and tangihanga. In all other places, we encourage you to keep track of everywhere you have been, as this helps contact tracing to identify any potential spread of COVID-19. There are no restrictions on personal movement or gatherings. In all other settings you are encouraged to maintain a record of where you have been. You legally must wear a face covering if you are aged 12 and over when: using public transport and airplanes (excluding inter-island ferries and school buses). exclusions apply for people with disabilities or mental health conditions Detailed information about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of control measures in New Zealand and overseas, or the application of Alert Levels at different times, for example, the application may be different depending on if NZ is moving down or up Alert Levels). Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. COVID-19 Alert Level system tables --- Section Separator --- Likely the disease is not contained. There is sustained and intensive community transmission. Outbreaks are widespread. Stay home in your bubble. No travel is allowed except for necessities or to undertake safe recreational activities. You must work and learn from home. No gatherings are allowed. All public and education facilities close. If you work for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. Businesses must close except for necessities (for example, supermarkets, pharmacies, petrol stations) and lifeline utilities. Green grocers, butchers, bakeries, and fishmongers can sell uncooked food items online and must deliver all orders. As in Alert Level 2, you legally must wear a face covering in some settings. It is recommended you wear a face covering whenever you leave the house. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities as well as reprioritisation of healthcare services is possible. Members of a household or shared bubble may view or accompany the deceased in a funeral home, cemetery or faith-based institution subject to strict conditions. Detailed information about Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Medium risk of community transmission – active but managed clusters. There are multiple cases of community transmission. There are multiple active clusters in multiple regions. Stay home and keep your bubble small. You can expand to reconnect with close family/whānau, enable caregiving, or support isolated people. This extended bubble legally must remain exclusive. Travel is still restricted, so stay local. Inter-regional travel is highly limited with limited permissions. You can travel for work, school, to pick up necessities and goods purchased in a contactless way or undertake low-risk recreational activities. Work and learn from home if you can. Only people who cannot work from home should return to businesses that can safely open under Alert Level 3. As at Alert Level 2, you legally must wear a face covering in some settings. It is recommended you wear a face covering whenever you leave the house. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed for weddings and civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga (exclusive of staff). Up to 5 staff may be present. Food and drink can be served to seated guests. Physical distancing and record keeping are legally required. When you leave home, keep a 2-metre distance from others when in public or 1-metre in controlled environments like workplaces, where practical. Customers are only allowed inside specific businesses: supermarkets, banks, primary produce retailers, pharmacies, petrol stations or hardware stores providing goods to trade customers, or if it is an emergency or critical situation. Other businesses can open if they trade in a contactless way. Public facilities remain closed. Early childhood centres and schools will open for students up to Year 10 for those who cannot learn from home. Healthcare services should use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. People at high risk of severe illness, such as older people and those with existing medical conditions, are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. You may choose to work. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Low risk of community transmission within applied area. There could be limited community transmission. There are active clusters in more than 1 region. You can connect with friends and whānau in person, socialise in groups and go shopping and travel domestically, if following public health guidance. You can return to the place where you work or learn but alternative ways of working are still encouraged. Businesses, schools, early learning services, tertiary education providers and public facilities, such as museums, libraries and pools can now all open with additional health measures in place. Gatherings of up to 100 people are allowed in a defined space, including weddings, civil union ceremonies, funerals and tangihanga. Mandatory record keeping (as in Alert Level 1) and physical distancing are legally required. Hospitality businesses legally must keep groups of customers separated and seated, with a maximum of 100 people in a defined space. Event facilities, including cinemas, stadiums, concert venues and casinos, can open. Physical distancing of 1 metre must be applied — this will determine the maximum capacity of the event. Health and disability care services can operate as normally as possible. Keep 2 metres apart from people you do not know in public and places like retail stores, libraries, gyms, and museums. Keep 1 metre apart from people in other places like office buildings and factories, and in places where there is a cap on numbers, like cinemas and hospitality. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 (for example, those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and older people) are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home, unless fully vaccinated. You may work, if you agree with your employer that you can do so safely. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, record keeping, and – where practical – physical distancing. Gyms — 2m physical distancing; outdoor teams sport — no physical distancing. You legally must wear a face covering if you are aged 12 and over when: using public transport, airplanes (including in departure points such as train/bus stations and airports) and in a taxi or ride-share vehicle visiting a healthcare or aged care facility (other than for a patient) inside retail businesses, such as supermarkets, pharmacies, shopping malls, indoor marketplaces, takeaway food stores and public venues — such as museums and libraries visiting the public areas within courts and tribunals, local and central Government agencies, and social service providers with customer service counters providing services while on site in a home or places of residence (except for providing childcare). You legally must wear a face covering if you work: as a driver of a taxi or ride-share vehicle at close contact businesses, for example barbers, beauticians and hairdressers in a public facing role at a hospitality venue, for example a cafe, restaurant, bar or nightclub at retail businesses, such as supermarkets, shopping malls, indoor marketplaces, takeaway food stores in the public areas of courts and tribunals, local and central Government agencies, and social service providers with customer service counters at indoor public facilities, for example libraries and museums (but not swimming pools). Detailed information about Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. There could be sporadic imported cases. There could be isolated local transmission in New Zealand. All businesses, facilities, schools, education providers and workplaces can open. NZ COVID Tracer QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport. The following places legally must have systems and processes to ensure visitors keep a record of where they have been (whether via the NZ COVID Tracer app or otherwise), including healthcare facilities, aged care facilities, close-contact businesses, hospitality venues, public facilities, exercise facilities and social gatherings such as weddings, civil union services, funerals and tangihanga. In all other places, we encourage you to keep track of everywhere you have been, as this helps contact tracing to identify any potential spread of COVID-19. There are no restrictions on personal movement or gatherings. In all other settings you are encouraged to maintain a record of where you have been. You legally must wear a face covering if you are aged 12 and over when: using public transport and airplanes (excluding inter-island ferries and school buses). exclusions apply for people with disabilities or mental health conditions Detailed information about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System Data and statistics Social media and newsletters Report a breach Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups
At Alert Level 1, the virus is contained in New Zealand. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can go to work, and all businesses and services can open but must follow public health rules. These include displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code. Early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. --- Section Separator --- Businesses can open at Alert Level 1, but you must follow public health rules, including record keeping. Doing business at Alert Level 1 Workplace operations at Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself, your whānau and your community. Vaccinations are free and are one of the most powerful tools against COVID-19. If you are aged 12 or over, you can book now. Book your free vaccination now (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. --- Section Separator --- As we work through this together, there are people and agencies able to support you. Free support services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week if you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others. Find contacts and support Financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress due to COVID-19. Financial support tool
At Alert Level 2 there is a low risk of community transmission. We need your support to protect New Zealand and eliminate COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Northland will move to Alert Level 2 from 11:59pm on Tuesday 19 October. Advice for Northland --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. From 11:59pm on Thursday 23 September 2021, most people aged 12 years and older must get a COVID-19 test to cross the boundary for personal movement. --- Section Separator --- Use this simple tool to find out when you must wear a face covering, when to keep your distance from people you do not know, and when to keep a record of where you have been. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can go to work, and all businesses and services can open but must follow public health rules. These include physical distancing, some workers wearing face coverings, and displaying the NZ COVID Tracer QR code. Early learning services, schools, kura and tertiary education facilities are open to everyone. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. --- Section Separator --- Businesses can open at Alert Level 2, but you must follow public health rules, including record keeping. All workers should keep at least 1 metre apart, where possible. Some workers must wear a face covering. Doing business at Alert Level 2 Working safely at Alert Level 2 Workplace operations at Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself, your whānau and your community. Vaccinations are free and are one of the most powerful tools against COVID-19. If you are aged 12 or over, you can get your vaccination now. Book your free vaccination now --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. --- Section Separator --- As we work through this together, there are people and agencies able to support you. Free support services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week if you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others. Find contacts and support Financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress due to COVID-19. Financial support tool --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. If you are an at-risk person, you will need to take extra precautions at Alert Level 2. Advice for at-risk people
At Alert Level 3, there is medium risk of community transmission with active, but managed, clusters. Make sure you follow all the public health rules to protect yourself, your whānau and our communities. --- Section Separator --- Northland will move to Alert Level 2 from 11:59pm Tuesday 19 October 2021. Parts of Waikato will remain at Alert Level 3. This will be reviewed on Friday 22 October 2021. Advice for Waikato Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. Alert Level advice for Auckland --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. Some business travel is permitted. Most people aged 12 years and older must get a COVID-19 test to cross the boundary for personal movement. --- Section Separator --- There are restrictions on what you can do and where you can go at Alert Level 3. You should work from home if you can. Children and young people should learn from home. You can go to supermarkets and some food retailers, banks, pharmacies, petrol stations and some other places. Other businesses can open if they can have contactless pick-up or delivery, including takeaways. You can exercise outdoors, but stay close to home. --- Section Separator --- Use this simple tool to find out when you must wear a face covering, when to keep your distance from people you do not know, and when to keep a record of where you have been. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Doing business at Alert Level 3 Working safely at Alert Level 3 Workplace operations at Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself, your whānau and your community. Vaccinations are free and are one of the most powerful tools against COVID-19. If you are aged 12 or over, you can get your vaccination now. Book your free vaccination now --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. --- Section Separator --- As we work through this together, there are people and agencies able to support you. Free support services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week if you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others. Find contacts and support Financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress due to COVID-19. Financial support tool --- Section Separator --- You are at high risk if you are over 70, have a compromised immune system or have underlying health conditions. Alert Level 3 advice for at-risk people (external link) The Ministry of Health has information for older people and their family and whānau. Advice for older people and their family and whānau | health.govt.nz (external link)
At Alert Level 4, the virus is not contained and there is sustained and intensive community transmission. Make sure you follow all the public health rules to protect yourself, your whānau and our communities. --- Section Separator --- There are restrictions on what you can do and where you can go at Alert Level 4. You can only leave home for essential personal movement, such as shopping. Supermarkets, dairies, pharmacies are open, and you can go in store to shop. You can exercise in your local area. You can leave your home to get a COVID-19 test or vaccination. Health and medical facilities will remain open. If there is another emergency while we are at Alert Level 4, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. --- Section Separator --- Use this simple tool to find out when you must wear a face covering, when to keep your distance from people you do not know, and when to keep a record of where you have been. --- Section Separator --- Business and personal travel within an Alert Level 4 area is limited to essential or permitted movement. Travel across an Alert Level boundary is strictly limited. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, we all need to stay in our household bubbles. If you or your employees can work from home, they can continue to work at Alert Level 4. If your business provides an Alert Level 4 business or service, then your employees can go into work if they cannot work from home. Doing business at Alert Level 4 Working safely at Alert Level 4 Workplace operations at Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself, your whānau and your community. Vaccinations are free and are one of the most powerful tools against COVID-19. If you are aged 12 or over, you can get your vaccination now. Book your free vaccination now (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. --- Section Separator --- As we work through this together, there are people and agencies able to support you. Free support services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week if you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others. Find contacts and support (external link) Financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress due to COVID-19. Financial support tool (external link) --- Section Separator --- People at higher risk in particular should stay at home and ask others to pick up supplies for them. You just need to ask them to leave supplies at the door, rather than come in. You are at high risk if you are over 70, have a compromised immune system or have underlying health conditions. Alert Level 4 advice for at-risk people The Ministry of Health has updated its information for older people who live alone or in a retirement village on creating a support bubble/buddy at Alert Level 4. Advice for older people and their family and whānau | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Alert Levels and updates Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Data and statistics available COVID-19 cases Vaccine data Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) data NZ COVID Tracer app data COVID-19 data portal COVID-19 modelling reports Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 18 October 2021 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. This includes: Current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics Source of COVID-19 cases Testing for COVID-19 633 Total active cases in this community outbreak 633 Total active cases in this community outbreak 5 New cases at the border 5 New cases at the border 60 New community cases 60 New community cases 2,005 Total community cases in current outbreak 2,005 Total community cases in current outbreak --- Section Separator --- Last updated 18 October 2021 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. COVID-19 Vaccination uptake rates across New Zealand (external link) (external link) COVID-19 Vaccination uptake rates across New Zealand (external link) (external link) COVID-19 Vaccination uptake rates within Māori communities (external link) (external link) COVID-19 Vaccination uptake rates within Māori communities (external link) (external link) COVID-19 Vaccination uptake rates within Pacific communities (external link) COVID-19 Vaccination uptake rates within Pacific communities (external link) 3,572,298 First dose administered 3,572,298 First dose administered 85% Eligible population with 1 dose 85% Eligible population with 1 dose 2,771,914 Second dose administered 2,771,914 Second dose administered 66% Eligible population with 2 doses 66% Eligible population with 2 doses --- Section Separator --- Last updated 18 October 2021 at 1:00 pm MBIE publishes a daily snapshot of d ata and statistics about MIQ in New Zealand. 181,262 Total number of people through MIQ facilities since 26 March 2020 181,262 Total number of people through MIQ facilities since 26 March 2020 --- Section Separator --- Last updated 18 October 2021 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects information on how much people are using the NZ COVID Tracer app. More data is available in your app dashboard. 3,305,233 Registered users 3,305,233 Registered users 2,040,250 Poster scans in the last 24 hours 2,040,250 Poster scans in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | stats.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If the data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you’re a researcher. COVID-19 data resources | health.govt.nz (external link)
Northland will move to Alert Level 2 from 11:59pm Tuesday 19 October 2021. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. This will be reviewed on Friday 22 October. Advice for Waikato What to do at Alert Level 3 Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. This will be reviewed on Monday 1 November. Alert Level advice for Auckland Find out the Alert Level for your region --- Section Separator --- The rest of New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. What to do at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- It is OK to ask for help. Contact a helpline when you need support. Protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot and report misinformation. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline about getting tested.
Home Alert Levels and updates History of the COVID-19 Alert System --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. --- Section Separator --- The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. --- Section Separator --- The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. --- Section Separator --- At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System Data and statistics Social media and newsletters Report a breach Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups
To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by a diverse range of perspectives, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet has convened the Community Panel. --- Section Separator --- To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for COVID-19 Response has established the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by a diverse range of perspectives, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet has convened the Community Panel.
Home Alert Levels and updates Independent Advisory Groups COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide advice to the Minister for the COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. The Group could; Consider the current COVID-19 response efforts across the Government’s system-wide response, encompassing border, managed isolation and quarantine, and public health response; and Provide an ongoing independent perspective on the robustness of the COVID-19 response system and opportunities for continuous improvement on specific aspects of the response to give the Minister assurance that the necessary learnings have been recorded and implemented by agencies. Sir Brian Roche, Chair Rob Fyfe, Member Dr Debbie Ryan, Member Professor Phillip Hill, Member Dr Dale Bramley, Member Terms of Reference define the purpose and scope for the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] The group has proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Read the latest reports --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide advice to the Minister for the COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. The Group could; Consider the current COVID-19 response efforts across the Government’s system-wide response, encompassing border, managed isolation and quarantine, and public health response; and Provide an ongoing independent perspective on the robustness of the COVID-19 response system and opportunities for continuous improvement on specific aspects of the response to give the Minister assurance that the necessary learnings have been recorded and implemented by agencies. --- Section Separator --- Sir Brian Roche, Chair Rob Fyfe, Member Dr Debbie Ryan, Member Professor Phillip Hill, Member Dr Dale Bramley, Member --- Section Separator --- Terms of Reference define the purpose and scope for the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] --- Section Separator --- The group has proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Read the latest reports --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Community Panel
Home Alert Levels and updates Independent Advisory Groups COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review and Improvement and Advice Group (CICRIAG) has conducted a review of the Auckland February 2021 Outbreak. They have proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. A number of agencies have already begun their own work to consolidate recommendations from a range of reviews. The Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group are coordinating with agencies to build a complete system-view of these recommendations and progress against recommended improvements. A full stocktake of recommendations has been undertaken, along with the status of those recommendations.  Accountabilities for recommendations will sit with appropriate agencies, and progress will be monitored by the COVID-19 Group. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. Recommendations have been grouped into themes to provide reporting on the system trends. 10 themes have been workshopped and developed by a group of representatives from key agencies/groups involved across the COVID-19 Response system. These themes are: Policy & Process review Data, information, privacy & technology System governance, accountabilities & leadership Workforce sustainability & resilience Communication & Engagement Equity & Te Tiriti o Waitangi Infection prevention & control Strategy, Planning, Economic, & Assurance Equipment e.g. Facilities and capital pieces Other – not yet defined --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review and Improvement and Advice Group (CICRIAG) has conducted a review of the Auckland February 2021 Outbreak. They have proposed that all recommendations from this review and previous reports should be actively monitored and reported upon monthly. A number of agencies have already begun their own work to consolidate recommendations from a range of reviews. The Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group are coordinating with agencies to build a complete system-view of these recommendations and progress against recommended improvements. A full stocktake of recommendations has been undertaken, along with the status of those recommendations.  Accountabilities for recommendations will sit with appropriate agencies, and progress will be monitored by the COVID-19 Group. These reports are intended to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 Response system is learning and adapting over time. --- Section Separator --- Recommendations have been grouped into themes to provide reporting on the system trends. 10 themes have been workshopped and developed by a group of representatives from key agencies/groups involved across the COVID-19 Response system. These themes are: Policy & Process review Data, information, privacy & technology System governance, accountabilities & leadership Workforce sustainability & resilience Communication & Engagement Equity & Te Tiriti o Waitangi Infection prevention & control Strategy, Planning, Economic, & Assurance Equipment e.g. Facilities and capital pieces Other – not yet defined --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Community Panel
Home Alert Levels and updates Independent Advisory Groups Community Panel --- Section Separator --- The Community Panel was established in July 2021 by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet to provide insights across the COVID-19 system direct from communities. The Panel brings lived experiences and deep community ties to provide a diverse range of perspectives on different aspects of the COVID-19 response and to help ensure issues such as equity are addressed. The Panel members represent communities such as rural, youth/aged, disabled, Māori, Pacific, LGBTQ+ and other ethnic groups. Their expertise will help shape the medium- to long-term COVID-19 strategy. Members were chosen after consultation with other government agencies to ensure strong cross-agency collaboration. Sarah Sparks, Chair Anthony Taueki, Member Dr Api Talemaitoga, Member Dr Aram Kim, Member Callum Woodhouse, Member Habib Ullah Marwat, Member Jordon Milroy, Member Dr Margaret Brown, Member Michelle Mascoll, Member The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Community Panel. Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] When information is proactively released about the Community Panel, it will be available on this page. --- Section Separator --- The Community Panel was established in July 2021 by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet to provide insights across the COVID-19 system direct from communities. The Panel brings lived experiences and deep community ties to provide a diverse range of perspectives on different aspects of the COVID-19 response and to help ensure issues such as equity are addressed. The Panel members represent communities such as rural, youth/aged, disabled, Māori, Pacific, LGBTQ+ and other ethnic groups. Their expertise will help shape the medium- to long-term COVID-19 strategy. Members were chosen after consultation with other government agencies to ensure strong cross-agency collaboration. --- Section Separator --- Sarah Sparks, Chair Anthony Taueki, Member Dr Api Talemaitoga, Member Dr Aram Kim, Member Callum Woodhouse, Member Habib Ullah Marwat, Member Jordon Milroy, Member Dr Margaret Brown, Member Michelle Mascoll, Member --- Section Separator --- The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Community Panel. Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] --- Section Separator --- When information is proactively released about the Community Panel, it will be available on this page. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Community Panel
Home Alert Levels and updates Independent Advisory Groups Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. Sir David Skegg, Chair Associate Prof Nikki Turner, Member Prof Philip Hill, Member Dr Maia Brewerton, Member Prof David Murdoch, Member Dr Ella Iosua, Member Rodney Jones, Special Advisor Professor Shaun Hendy, Special Advisor Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group. The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. Read Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] The group has provided Hon Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health (Public Health), their advice about the future of the elimination strategy and the phased re-opening of borders. Read the group's advice to Minister Verrall [PDF, 312 KB] Published at 5am on Wednesday 11 August 2021. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. --- Section Separator --- Sir David Skegg, Chair Associate Prof Nikki Turner, Member Prof Philip Hill, Member Dr Maia Brewerton, Member Prof David Murdoch, Member Dr Ella Iosua, Member Rodney Jones, Special Advisor Professor Shaun Hendy, Special Advisor Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group. --- Section Separator --- The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. Read Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] --- Section Separator --- The group has provided Hon Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health (Public Health), their advice about the future of the elimination strategy and the phased re-opening of borders. Read the group's advice to Minister Verrall [PDF, 312 KB] Published at 5am on Wednesday 11 August 2021. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Community Panel
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 1-10 of 610 updates 18 Oct 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 18 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Oct 2021 A huge number of people across the country went out on Super Saturday and got their COVID-19 vaccination. 17 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 16 Oct 2021 130,002 doses were administered on Super Saturday. A total of 85% of New Zealand's eligible population have had at least 1 vaccination. 16 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Oct 2021 The Ministry of Health has been advised by ESR of a second COVID-19 positive detection in wastewater from a sample taken from Te Awamutu on Wednesday. 14 Oct 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 13 Oct 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm.
This temporary measure gives the Government time to assess the situation and gather information from the contact tracing and community testing now underway, to help find the source of the cases announced on Sunday. Limiting movement within north west Waikato for this temporary period will limit the Delta variant’s opportunity to spread while that important work goes on. As with the other recent ‘bespoke’ alert level in Hauraki, and the ongoing restrictions for Auckland, the Government recognises the impact these decisions will have on the lives of people in the north west Waikato. However, given the cases announced on Sunday, it was absolutely essential to stop Delta in its tracks. This temporary restriction is one of three key tools which will help prevent that. Getting vaccinated - and getting tested if you’re symptomatic - are the two other vital actions people in Waikato can take right now to help. Straight away yesterday, there was a strong show of support from people to get tested and the DHB will be making sure that response is supported again today. There are plenty of free testing opportunities available right around the region, including at some GP clinics as well as at community sites. These are all listed on the Healthpoint website. COVID-19 symptoms include fever, new or worsening cough, sore throat, shortness of breath, sneezing and runny nose, and temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste. If you’ve got any of these symptoms, please don’t hesitate to get a free test. The best ongoing defence against the impact of COVID-19 will be for as many New Zealanders as possible to get vaccinated - the more people who’re vaccinated the harder it becomes for the virus to keep moving. We’re asking people in Waikato to prioritise getting vaccinated today if they haven’t done so already. Make that first appointment now - every dose counts. --- Section Separator --- A boundary map for the north west Waikato alert level region is now available online - Alert Level Boundary map People can travel in and out of the Waikato Alert Level 3 area for limited permitted reasons. This includes for work in permitted business and services. People can also cross into the Waikato Alert Level 3 area from an Alert Level 2 area to work in any business or service which is open in the Alert Level 3 area. But people cannot cross from the Waikato Alert Level 3 area to work in an Alert Level 2 area, except for work in permitted businesses and services. If you are travelling in and out of the Waikato Alert Level 3 area - other than across the boundary with Auckland – you are not required to provide evidence of a recent test. If you must travel, carry evidence of the purpose of travel and be prepared to explain reasons for travel should they be stopped at a checkpoint or spot check. A formal business travel document is not required however we recommend people source a letter from their employer confirming place of work and need to travel.
The case was detected in a routine surveillance test which was done in Auckland yesterday, and which returned a positive result earlier today. The person has been tested regularly, as required for essential workers travelling out of Auckland, and had previously returned a negative test result on September 24. The person’s infectious period is determined to be from September 28. As per surveillance testing protocol, essential workers who are permitted to cross Auckland’s boundaries are not required to self-isolate until they return a negative test result, as they undergo regular tests. The person is currently isolating at a facility in Palmerston North. Auckland Regional Public Health Service has completed its initial interview with the person. Whole genome sequencing is underway. Two household contacts have been identified and are self-isolating. The hours worked by the driver means their contact with other people is limited. --- Section Separator --- A small number of exposure events are in the process of being worked through by public health staff. Any that are locations of interest will be listed on the Ministry of Health website. We anticipate the first of a handful of locations will be published this evening. More information on this case will be available tomorrow. Regularly check the locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Palmerston North testing centres open on Sunday: Drive-through Community Testing Centre, 575 Main Street, 10am-8pm City Doctors White Cross, 22 Victoria Avenue, 8am-8pm The Palms Medical Centre, 445 Ferguson Street, 8am-8pm Visit Healthpoint for a list of all testing centres open on Sunday. Find a testing centre near you | healthpoint.co.nz (external link)
Alert Level 3 and 4 restrictions in Auckland have helped control the Delta outbreak over the past seven weeks while New Zealanders ramped up their vaccination rates. Today, based on public health advice, Cabinet confirmed its plan to transition Auckland out of current restrictions carefully and methodically, with regular check-ins to ensure we’re continuing to actively control the virus. From 11:59pm Tuesday 5 October, Auckland will remain in Alert Level 3 but several key changes will occur. People will be able to connect with loved ones outdoors with no more than two households at a time, up to a maximum of 10 people. Early childhood education will return for all People can move around Auckland for recreation such as beach visits and hunting. At step 2 retail will open their doors, with the usual measures of wearing facemasks and keeping up physical distancing. Public facilities such as pools and zoos will open, and the number of people who can meet outdoors will increase to 25. Step 3 will bring back those higher risk settings. Hospitality will open – seated, separated and with a limit of 50. Close contact businesses like hairdressers will also open with mask use and physical distancing. Gatherings will also extend to 50 people. Cabinet will review each step weekly to ensure it’s safe to move before confirming the next step. The wage subsidy will continue to be available. Public health advice also sets out that schools at this stage will be able to return after school holidays on the 18 th of October with the final decision to be made on that closer to the time. In total, this phasing amounts to a careful and methodical transition plan for Auckland. At the end of these steps, we will then move to a national framework that reflects a more highly vaccinated population, allowing us the ability to deal with riskier settings such as large-scale events with the use of vaccine certificates. Cabinet also agreed the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 to continue to support Auckland to do the heavy lifting – but the 100 limit cap on hospitality venues is removed. The requirement for customers to be seated and separated with physical distancing remains in place. Today we hit the milestone of 2 million New Zealanders vaccinated. It follows the doubling of Auckland vaccination rates over the past 7 weeks, with 84 percent of Aucklanders having had one dose, and 52 per cent now fully vaccinated. But there is more work to do. Vaccines were always going to change the way we manage Covid-19 into the future, but our strategy has worked and will remain – we want to control the virus, avoid cases and hospitalisations, enjoy our freedoms, and reconnect with the world. Find out more about the 3 step plan for Auckland
We’re asking everyone to contribute to a big, nationwide push for vaccination. This will culminate in a National Day of Action for vaccination on Saturday 16 October. On that day, we will have vaccine clinics open throughout Aotearoa all day and into the evening. A bit like Election Day, we will be asking all our political and civic leaders to contribute to a big collective effort to turn people out. As of today half of the eligible population in New Zealand has been fully vaccinated. We’ve seen 85% of Aucklanders and over 80% of New Zealanders have at least one dose of the Pfizer vaccine. We all have a role to play in getting our vaccination rates up. Our message to the 80% of the eligible population who have had their first dose is this: your job is not done. Please get your second dose, and help us reach those who have not yet come forward to be vaccinated. We need you to be talking to them about the reasons you’ve been vaccinated, we need you to make sure they are getting reliable, honest information about the vaccine. And we need you to help us to get the unvaccinated vaccinated. We are asking our business community, our media, and our community groups to play a role too. Those that want to offer incentives to the unvaccinated to get them in the door are encouraged to do so. We want parents and grandparents to encourage young New Zealanders to take up the opportunity to be vaccinated. We also want young people to check in with any older family members who aren’t yet vaccinated, show them where they can find reliable and accurate information online, and help the whole whānau to be protected. We must leave no stone unturned. No one should be left behind because they haven’t had the support they need to make an informed choice to be vaccinated. There are currently 350,000 appointments available next week. That doesn’t include general practice, where more than 20% of people are getting their vaccines. Work is being done with District Health Boards now to increase capacity even further. Our response as a collective nation to the challenges posed by COVID-19 has been world-leading. Now we need a world-leading uptake of vaccination. The next week and a half is critical. We need to pull out all the stops to increase our vaccination rates. It has never been more urgent. Book your vaccine today (external link) Get vaccinated this Super Saturday
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Deputy Prime Minister Grant Robertson Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay Watch the livestream here. --- Section Separator --- Number of new community cases: 19 Number of new cases identified at the border: 0 Location of new community cases: Auckland Update on today’s cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield. --- Section Separator --- 35 community cases of COVID-19 — all are in Auckland. Zero cases in managed isolation. More than 2 million second doses of vaccine administered to date. 15,349 tests were taken yesterday. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield --- Section Separator --- 43 community cases of COVID-19 — 40 are in Auckland, 3 are in Waikato 3 cases in managed isolation, including 1 historical. More than 2 million second doses of vaccine administered to date. 16,565 tests were taken yesterday. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield --- Section Separator --- 55 community cases of COVID-19 — 53 are in Auckland, 2 are in Waikato No cases in managed isolation More than 2 million second doses of vaccine administered to date 25,799 tests were taken yesterday Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Deputy Prime Minister Grant Robertson Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay --- Section Separator --- 71 community cases of COVID-19 — all are in Auckland 1 case in managed isolation 87% of Aucklanders have 1 vaccine dose 28,646 tests were taken yesterday Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- There are 60 new community cases today: 57 in Auckland, and 3 in the Waikato. As at 10am, 36 of these cases are linked — 18 of which are household contacts — and 24 remain unlinked, with investigations continuing to help determine their connection to the outbreak. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the livestream here. --- Section Separator --- Number of new community cases: 8 Number of new cases identified at the border: 1, including 1 historical Location of new community cases: Auckland Update on today’s cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the livestream here. --- Section Separator --- Number of new community cases: 45 Number of new cases identified at the border: 0 Location of new community cases: Auckland Update on today’s cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield --- Section Separator --- Number of new community cases: 33 Number of new cases identified at the border: 0 Update on today’s cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the livestream here. --- Section Separator --- Number of new community cases: 19 Number of new cases identified at the border: 3, 3 historical cases Location of new community cases: Auckland (18), Waikato (1) Update on today’s cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield. Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- 29 community cases of COVID-19 — 28 are in Auckland, and 1 is in Waikato. 2 cases in managed isolation. More than 2 million second doses of vaccine administered to date. 13,693 tests were taken yesterday, including 7,420 swabs taken in the Auckland region. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay --- Section Separator --- 24 community cases of COVID-19 — 18 are in Auckland, and 6 are in Waikato. 2 cases in managed isolation. More than 2 million second doses of vaccine administered to date. 14,905 tests were taken yesterday, including 12,595 swabs taken in the Auckland region. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay --- Section Separator --- 29 community cases of COVID-19 — 24 are in Auckland, and 5 are in Waikato. 2 cases in managed isolation. More than 2 million second doses of vaccine administered to date. 23,387 tests were taken yesterday, including 12,757 swabs taken in the Auckland region. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay --- Section Separator --- 39 community cases of COVID-19 — 30 are in Auckland, and 9 are in Waikato. 2 cases in managed isolation. More than 2 million second doses of vaccine administered to date. 24,714 tests were taken yesterday, including 13,331 swabs taken in the Auckland region. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 6:30pm. Speakers: COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins Watch the livestream on RNZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are 44 community cases of COVID-19. 41 are in Auckland, and 3 are in Waikato. There are 3 cases in managed isolation. Today's cases are higher than recent days. This is not unexpected because there have been a number of contacts of new cases and we can expect to get fluctuations from day to day. 29,925 tests were taken yesterday, including 10,439 swabs taken in the Auckland region. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
As part of our plan to give every eligible person the opportunity to get vaccinated by the end of the year, we are ensuring it is both easy and accessible for everyone, including disabled people. A 30-strong team has been tasked with answering calls and questions, assisting disabled people and their carers to get the information and support they need. It will not only help increase vaccination rates among this group, but keep them and their whānau safer. To speak with a support specialist, people can call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 for free 8 am – 8 pm Monday to Friday and ‘push 2’ to speak to one of the team. We know that being vaccinated will be one of our greatest protections against COVID-19, which is why we need to continue making every effort to prioritise disabled people in the vaccination programme. It is encouraging to see the team is already having a positive impact, supporting over 440 disabled people in the first two weeks since the team began taking calls. Support has included ensuring sites have mobility assistance in place, arranging sign language interpreters, providing transport options, ensuring 1737 phone counsellors are available to support people with needle anxiety, and other bespoke solutions developed for individuals alongside District Health Boards. This is another step in the right direction as we continue to remove barriers to vaccinations for disabled people, and make the vaccination programme accessible, inclusive and mana-enhancing. A toolkit is available for people supporting disabled peoples with key messages, digital assets for social media channels, newsletters and website, frequently asked questions, and links to further information and resources. Support and information for disabled people Vaccine resources for disabled people (external link)
Both cases arrived at Middlemore’s Emergency Department last night seeking treatment for issues unrelated to COVID-19. In the first case, the patient answered no to all screening questions but, while in triage, clinical staff noted a very minor cough and took steps to isolate and test them. They subsequently returned a positive COVID-19 result. This patient is now in COVID-19 isolation ward at Middlemore Hospital. In the second case, the patient answered yes to one of the screening questions, which was also a symptom consistent with the non-COVID-related reason for going to hospital. They were tested and given initial treatment. After learning of their positive test result, the second patient chose to self-discharge but is now being managed by the Auckland Regional Public Health Service (ARPHS). All staff were wearing the appropriate PPE and as such no staff members are required to stand down. Acting out of an abundance of caution, ARPHS have determined that 66 patients should be considered as close contacts as a result of both exposure events. To date, 34 of these patients remain in the hospital and have been moved to isolation wards, while 32 patients who have been discharged or did not require admission following their ED visit are now under the management of ARPHS for testing and follow up. The risk to public health of these events is deemed to be low. A further update will be available at 1pm tomorrow — Friday 1 October.
Although today’s news has been encouraging with new cases in Waikato being linked to previously identified cases, this is a prudent step to take. The extension announced today will cover the Waitomo District including Te Kuiti, as well as the Waipa and Otorohanga Districts. It means the boundary will follow the coast south to Mokau, then east along to northern Pureora Forest Park, and then north to include Te Awamutu, Karapiro and Cambridge to meet the existing boundary. These areas will come under Level 3 restrictions from 11.59pm tonight and I want to make it clear that this is a strict Level 3. The easing steps announced for Auckland earlier this week don’t apply to this area. These Level 3 restrictions will apply until 11.59pm on Monday night, and will be reviewed at Cabinet on Monday. During this time, there will be further wide testing, contact tracing, and waste water testing to help us assess whether restrictions in the Waikato need to remain in place. The extended boundary we are announcing today will include Hamilton Airport. Travel out and in of the area by road or air is restricted. You will need to carry evidence of why you are travelling and police will be patrolling the boundary. People should stay home. As well as staying home, we need everyone in the area to get tested and get vaccinated. There is a pop-up testing centre at Karapiro and five testing sites operating in Hamilton, Raglan, Huntly, and Tokoroa to help you do that. People should get tested if they develop symptoms or have been at a location of interest. As for vaccination – we know it’s the best tool we have to provide everyone with their individual armour against COVID-19. We all want to reduce the need for prolonged lockdowns in the future. --- Section Separator --- People can travel in and out of the Waikato Alert Level 3 area for limited permitted reasons. This includes for work in permitted business and services. People can also cross into the Waikato Alert Level 3 area from an Alert Level 2 area to work in any business or service which is open in the Alert Level 3 area. But people cannot cross from the Waikato Alert Level 3 area to work in an Alert Level 2 area, except for work in permitted businesses and services. If you are travelling in and out of the Waikato Alert Level 3 area — other than across the boundary with Auckland, you are not required to provide evidence of a recent test. If you must travel, carry evidence of the purpose of travel and be prepared to explain reasons for travel if you are stopped at a checkpoint or spot check. A formal business travel document is not required however we recommend people source a letter from their employer confirming place of work and need to travel Travel in and out of Auckland’s Alert Level 3 boundaries is not impacted by the introduction of the new boundaries in the Waikato. Alert Level Boundary map Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Business travel across an Alert Level boundary Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary
The man in his 50s had underlying health conditions and was a confirmed case of COVID-19. The patient spent a total of 40 days in ICU. He was admitted to Middlemore hospital on 27 August from home. His family is being supported by their church and community. Our thoughts are with his whānau at this deeply sad time.
This follows the introduction of rapid antigen testing at Middlemore Hospital. It will start within the next few days at Auckland City and North Shore hospitals, and be used as a point-of-arrival test in the self-isolation pilots in Auckland and Christchurch from 30 October to Wednesday 8 December 2021, with final travellers exiting self-isolation on 22 December 2021. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we have used a range of methods to contain and control the virus to protect New Zealanders and their livelihoods. As more people gain protection through vaccinations, our tool box is changing. Testing is critical in identifying cases quickly and responding effectively to any outbreaks, and we want to harness testing innovation amongst the business community to boost our public health response. The Ministry of Business Innovation and Employment (MBIE) is working closely with the business community and the Ministry of Health, to support and accelerate additional levels of testing for New Zealand workers. The Government has been in talks with business leaders, and will meet with them tomorrow to discuss the next steps for safely incorporating rapid antigen testing into our COVID-19 response. While this technology provides a result quickly, rapid antigen testing tends to be less sensitive at detecting cases, especially in asymptomatic people or those who are either very early in or towards the end of their infectious period. That’s why we must ensure a robust system is in place so we don’t miss cases. Anyone who tests positive will be verified with further testing and managed appropriately — including being linked with healthcare. Today the Government is also releasing a review into its Covid-19 testing, carried out by the Ministry of Health COVID-19 Testing Technical Advisory Group (TAG). We want to ensure our COVID-19 testing has adapted and evolved to support New Zealand’s pandemic response and reconnection plan. We asked Professor David Murdoch and his team to review the coordination of COVID-19 testing, and the processes by which tests and testing innovations are assessed and adopted. We also asked them to identify opportunities to ensure ongoing sustainable and fit-for-purpose Covid-19 testing within New Zealand. One of the key themes in their report is how we adopt and use testing innovations. Recommendations from the rapid review include a future-focused COVID-19 testing strategy to assist planning, and the creation of a dedicated testing approach to facilitate innovation and the implementation of new tests and testing strategies in a timely way. Work is already underway within the Ministry of Health to consider how rapid antigen testing can best be used to identify new infections, support outbreak investigations through screening, and monitor disease trends. Rapid antigen testing is in use in four approved health programmes, to assess their suitability in the context of New Zealand’s COVID-19 prevalence. Auckland hospitals in areas deemed as ‘high-risk’ settings are using this technology to: detect cases early in patients presenting symptoms of COVID-19 manage hospital capacity ensure the safety of visitors inform clinical decision making Our priority is to safeguard the health and wellbeing of all New Zealanders. We are committed to engaging and working constructively with businesses and communities as part of our ongoing COVID-19 response.
As the Government looks towards a phased reopening of the borders and to reconnect with the world, it has to ensure it have a strong legislative base to help us respond when cases appear in New Zealand. This includes ensuring the testing network is well set up for continued high numbers of testing, any future surge or need for further capacity, and there is security of testing materials even if there was to be a global shortage. The Government is introducing a tougher penalty system for breaches of COVID-19 Orders that would put others at greater risk from COVID-19, which will include a scale depending on the severity of the breach. And it is ensuring the right people have the right powers to act, so the system can be more agile in responding to an outbreak. Over the past year some areas of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act have been identified for improvement, so changes are being made to ensure the legislation is future-proofed, flexible and responsive. Most New Zealanders are familiar with key Orders already provided for under the existing Act – for example requiring returnees to go into MIQ and for people to wear masks on public transport – and the Amendment Bill will not be changing any of these. The COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill (No 2) includes: Strengthening the infringement regime for COVID-19 breaches: Increase fees and fines to provide for a greater deterrent to breaches of the Order and better reflect the grave risk to the community when people do the wrong thing Establish separate fees and fines for individuals and businesses Expanding the purpose for which Orders under the Act can be made to keep people safe from COVID-19 Providing for more efficient management of COVID-19 testing infrastructure. This will improve quality control and create minimum standards for all testing providers The ability for the Chief Executive of MBIE to make rules about the day-to-day operation of managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) facilities to ensure that they can continue to operate effectively Changing the default liability for MIQ charges so that everyone will be liable for charges unless exempted in regulations People who enter MIQ will be required to provide accurate contact information for invoicing purpose The intention to switch the MIQ fees regime around so that everybody who is required or chooses to isolate in an MIQ facility must pay the charges unless they are exempt, as well as making it an offence not to provide accurate information, will enable a much easier and smoother invoicing system for all involved. The Amendment Bill was read for the first time tonight and will be referred to the Health Select Committee. Submissions to the Health Select Committee will open in due course. For further information about the COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Bill visit the Ministry of Health website (external link) . To get a copy of the Bill and find information on how to make a submission please visit the Parliament website (external link) .
Our education and health and disability workforces have done an incredible job throughout this pandemic to keep themselves and people safe. Vaccination remains our strongest and most effective tool to protect against infection and disease, and we need as many workers as possible to be vaccinated to allow sectors to respond to the pandemic and deliver everyday services with as little disruption as possible. While most people working in these sectors are already fully or partially vaccinated, we cannot leave anything to chance and are making it mandatory. It is not an easy decision, but we need the people who work with vulnerable communities who have not yet been vaccinated to take this extra step. Vaccinations for children aged 5 to 11 are not yet approved and the health and disability sector includes a range of high-risk occupations. People have a reasonable expectation that our workforces are taking all reasonable precautions to prevent the spread of disease, and government agencies have been working with them to ensure they are as protected as possible. A high rate of vaccinations will help to protect staff from getting sick and passing COVID-19 onto loved ones. It will also reassure those who are anxious about their children attending school and early learning services. Exemptions may be possible under some circumstances. Workers at our MIQ and at airports and ports are already required to be vaccinated. Health and Disability sector An amendment will be made to the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 that will require a new set of workers in the health and disability sector to be fully vaccinated by 1st December, 2021. Vaccination is already mandatory for high-risk roles (including health worker roles) in Border, MIF and MIQ settings. This amendment seeks to extend that requirement so that certain roles in the health and disability sector are also covered by this order, including: Regulated professions currently registered under the HPCA regulations Non-regulated professions in the following healthcare setting: Aged Residential Care Facilities (ARC) Home and Community Care Services (HCSS) Kaupapa Māori Health Providers Pacific Health Providers Non-Government Organisations who provide health services Aged Residential Care Facilities (ARC) Home and Community Care Services (HCSS) Kaupapa Māori Health Providers Pacific Health Providers Non-Government Organisations who provide health services Roles undertaken by people who: are in frequent contact, face-to-face contact, or are in close proximity to healthcare workers providing a health service work where a health service is being provided do not necessarily provide a health service, but their role requires frequent contact/engagement with those providing health services and is considered tied to a role within a healthcare setting. are in frequent contact, face-to-face contact, or are in close proximity to healthcare workers providing a health service work where a health service is being provided do not necessarily provide a health service, but their role requires frequent contact/engagement with those providing health services and is considered tied to a role within a healthcare setting. Any health and disability workers who fall under the categories above must receive their first dose of the vaccine by 30 October and their second dose by 1 December 2021. Further details about the criteria for this amended order will be released in due course. Education sector From 1 January 2022, schools and early learning services and providers will need to maintain a register, and ensure only vaccinated staff and support people have contact with children and students. They need to have their first dose by 15 November. This includes home-based educators, and all those support people in our schools and early learning services such as teacher-aides, administration and maintenance staff and contractors. Secondary schools and kura will also be required to keep a COVID-19 vaccination register for students. Students that do not produce evidence of vaccination will be considered unvaccinated. All school employees in Auckland and other Alert Level 3 regions will be required to return a negative COVID-19 test result before they can return to work onsite. Those who are not fully vaccinated in the period leading up to 1 January 2022 will also be required to undergo weekly COVID-19 testing. Work is continuing on whether mandatory vaccinations will be required in the tertiary education sector.
Getting vaccinated is the most effective measure against the transmission of COVID-19, and the risk of serious illness or death. To further reduce the possibility of the virus getting through our border, we are introducing the requirement for air travellers aged 17 and over, who are not New Zealand citizens, to be fully vaccinated to enter New Zealand. This is an important step in our Reconnecting New Zealand strategy. Travellers will be required to declare their vaccination status when registering with the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as well as presenting proof of vaccination or a relevant exemption to their airline and to Customs officers once they land. The COVID-19 Technical Advisory Group has recommended that a full course of any of the 22 COVID-19 vaccines approved by a government or approval authority, with the last dose being at least 14 days before arrival, will be acceptable at this stage. Guidance will be prepared on what will qualify as evidence of a vaccination or an exemption. List of 22 approved COVID-19 vaccines (external link) Most people coming to New Zealand tell us they are already vaccinated. This requirement makes it formal and will provide an extra layer of protection at the border. It will work well alongside the announcement today that everyone on board an Air New Zealand aircraft travelling internationally will need to be fully vaccinated from February 2022. Everybody arriving will still be required to complete 14 days in Managed Isolation and Quarantine, and all travellers except those from exempt locations will still need to have evidence of a negative COVID-19 test result from an accredited laboratory within 72 hours of their first scheduled international flight. Even a single case presents a risk. However, high and wide-spread vaccination rates will mean more freedoms, fewer restrictions, and the day-to-day confidence that protection from the virus brings. This requirement will be an interim measure while development continues on the traveller health declaration system, which will introduce the ability to digitally verify the vaccination status of people arriving into New Zealand. The requirement will be brought in with an amendment to the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Order (No 2) 2020 (Air Border Order). Those subject to the requirement who fail to present proof of vaccination may be subject to an infringement notice under the COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020, which under a Bill currently before the House would see infringements carrying a maximum fine of $4000. The requirement will not apply to New Zealand citizens, children under the age of 17, and those who are unable to be vaccinated for medical reasons. RSE workers coming to NZ as part of the one-way QFT arrangement with Samoa, Tonga, and Vanuatu will also be exempt due to existing vaccination requirements, as will refugees. There will also be a process to seek exemptions from the Director General of Health on humanitarian grounds, or where people travelling with New Zealand citizens have not had the opportunity to be vaccinated within the timeframes.
Northland will move to Alert Level 3 restrictions from 11:59pm tonight following recent information on the risk presented by the positive case initially tested in Whangarei earlier this week and confirmed in Auckland yesterday. The person is now in an Auckland Managed Isolation Quarantine facility. Updated information provided by the police today shows the case moved extensively around Northland after travelling there on 2 October. We believe this new information warrants an Alert Level change decision to keep Northland people safe. We recognise that it is unusual to put a region into Alert Level 3 when there are no further cases. However it is vitally important that we get ahead of any potential spread, and set up widespread testing and continue contact tracing efforts. Restrictions will remain in place until 11:59pm Tuesday and will be reviewed at Cabinet on Monday. This is a strict Alert Level 3 and as with Waikato, the easing steps announced for Auckland earlier this week will not apply to Northland. The Auckland boundary will stay in place. A public health investigation continues to identify close contacts and any potential locations of interest. The information we have at this stage is that the person was in Northland from the afternoon of 2 October until the evening of 6 October. They are believed to have travelled around the region, including in Whangarei, Kamo, Paihia and Kawakawa, before returning to Auckland. Widespread testing and wastewater testing will take place over the weekend. Every Northlander needs to stay home, get tested as soon as possible if they have symptoms, and continue to check the Ministry of Health website for updated locations of interest. And of course vaccination centres continue to be open in Alert Level 3. Locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) We know many people in Northland live rurally, but the advice is the same for everyone – get vaccinated, get tested, and follow the Alert Level 3 requirements. As we have seen in Waikato the virus is finding its way into rural areas and finding unvaccinated people. Distance is no barrier. It has never been more urgent to get vaccinated and we urge everyone to act now – do not wait. Information on vaccine centres is available on the HealthPoint website. COVID-19 vaccinations in Northland | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) The first locations of interest for Northland have been added to the Ministry of Health’s website. They are the BP Connect Wylies petrol station at 49 Maunu Road, Woodhill, Whangarei from 11.20pm on 2 October to 12.20am 3 October. And the Z Kensington service station, corner of Kamo Road and Nixon Street, Whangarei from 3.45pm-4.45pm on 4 October. Testing centres operating in the Northland region are at: Kaitaia Hospital 1 Sammaree Place in Kerikeri Dargaville Hospital 20 Winger Crescent in Kamo Pohe Island in Whangarei. COVID-19 Testing in Northland | healthpoint.co.nz (external link)
As of this morning over 98% of the active border workforce have received at least 1 dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine, and 93% are fully vaccinated. This greater protection at our border gives us confidence that those people who are going to work and doing their jobs, are not going to get sick or die from COVID-19 if we see another international ship present with the virus in our waters, or have an incursion at an airport or MIQ facility. It also reduces the possibility of transmission on to others in the community. Over the past 10 weeks, vaccination rates for active border workers across all sectors have climbed. This is testament to the hard work of the air and maritime sectors, employers, unions, DHBs, resident experts and border workers themselves for their work in this space. Total workers have climbed to 98% from just 84% having had 1 dose in July. For port workers, there has been a huge jump from just 55% in July, to 95% today. All Government employed workers are now vaccinated, and this week’s deadline brings private employers in as well. This is a significant step towards protecting New Zealanders from COVID-19 now and into the future. This is increasingly important as we look to how we reopen to the world. The border will continue to be our first defence against COVID-19 and the people who work there must be protected. Anyone who has been uncertain about getting vaccinated has one more day to ask any outstanding questions and get that first dose. You will then have 35 days to get your second one following the deadline. We encourage you to do this. It will keep you safe.
The Ministry’s current assessment is that the earlier weak result combined with the positive result today indicate that the original test was taken in the early stage of the individual’s infection. This would help limit any potential spread of infection from the case. Public health interviews with the case are now underway to confirm their movements. Locations of interest in Auckland and Northland will be posted on the Ministry of Health website as they become available and updated as more information becomes available. The first locations of interest are expected to be posted Friday. Northland DHB is stepping up its screening at Northland hospitals for visitors and patients and arranging additional testing.  Anyone with symptoms should get tested and people in Auckland and Northland should check tomorrow for new locations of interest. The DHB is also encouraging vaccination at general practice, pharmacy, Mâori health providers and DHB clinics. Check the locations of interest (external link) Get a COVID-19 test
The person lives in Pukekohe and is in the process of moving to a rural area north of Katikati. Katikati is north of Tauranga and currently in Alert Level 2. The test result has a high CT value usually seen in the early or late stage of infection and is under further investigation, including a repeat test. The person has been permitted to cross the boundary in and out of Auckland as they are in the process of shifting house. As part of this, the individual has been having regular surveillance testing– at least five tests have been taken since the beginning of September, the most recent prior test was 5 October. All five of those tests were negative. The individual who returned the positive result is fully vaccinated and has reported no symptoms apart from regular seasonal hayfever and resultant runny nose that hadn’t recently changed. All family members have been contacted, tests arranged and are currently isolating.  Results are expected tomorrow. The current public health assessment is that the risk appears low given the person’s vaccination status, regular test history, good use of the app and rapid contact, testing and isolation of family members. --- Section Separator --- The person is also a consistent user of the COVID-19 tracer app, which will assist with contact tracing and identifying any locations of interest. These will be added to the Ministry of Health website as soon as confirmed. Initial information has identified locations of interest in Katikati and Pukekohe, with details to follow. Regularly check locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Katikati Medical Centre, 4 Clive Road, 8.30am - 4.30pm Katikati Medical Centre, 4 Clive Road, 8.30am - 4.30pm Katikati Rugby and Sports Clubrooms, Fairview Rd, Katikati 8.30am – 4.30pm (hours will be extended if there is high-demand) Katikati Rugby and Sports Clubrooms, Fairview Rd, Katikati 8.30am – 4.30pm (hours will be extended if there is high-demand) Tauranga Accident and HealthCare, 19 Second Avenue, 8.00am - 6.00pm Tauranga Accident and HealthCare, 19 Second Avenue, 8.00am - 6.00pm
From 11:59pm tonight additional reasons for permitted travel will be introduced for movement across the Auckland boundary. As this outbreak has shown Delta is highly transmissible, and in order to be confident of controlling its spread, restrictions at the Alert Level boundary have been tougher than previous outbreaks. As case numbers have come down in Auckland and with the introduction of a testing regime for personal travel, we are now in a position where we can safely expand the permitted reasons for travel. The additional permitted travel reasons are for: people relocating permanently to: move into a new property that they have purchased or rented start a new job undertake tertiary education or study move into a new property that they have purchased or rented start a new job undertake tertiary education or study shared caregiving arrangements people returning home from Alert Level 3 to Alert Level 2. There are people in Auckland who need to move to a new home or start a new job outside of Auckland, as well as families whose ability to maintain shared childcare arrangements has been restricted. To ensure risks are mitigated, people who are relocating or returning home to an Alert Level 2 area will need to get a negative test within 72 hours of their departure. People crossing the boundary for shared caregiving arrangements will need to have a test within seven days of each crossing, as we recognise these arrangements may involve more back-and-forth travel than other reasons. People relocating or returning home will need to carry proof of their reason for travel, and not travel if they are unwell or have any symptoms of COVID-19. Students are asked to get in touch with their tertiary accommodation provider before planning their travel, so their provider can help prepare for their return. We have been able to make these changes due to the job that Alert Level 3 is doing, and we will continue to monitor the situation and take a flexible approach where it makes sense, and is safe to do so. People can already relocate or go back home to Auckland permanently, so long as they have proof of residential address. There is no requirement for a COVID-19 test. Most people are still not permitted to travel and it is really important that anyone with symptoms or who has been at a location of interest does not travel, isolates at home and gets a COVID-19 test. More information on personal travel across an Alert Level boundary
The Ministry of Health has been advised by ESR of a second COVID-19 positive detection in wastewater from a sample taken from Te Awamutu on Wednesday. This follows an earlier positive wastewater detection announced yesterday in a sample taken from the Waikato town in on Tuesday. Public health officials have yet to identify anyone who returned to the area from managed isolation and quarantine and could be shedding the virus in the area. For this reason, anyone in the Te Awamutu area who has symptoms of COVID-19, or have family or household members who are symptomatic, or anyone who travels in and out of the area regularly for work, are urged to get tested as soon as possible. Anyone who has been at a location of interest at the relevant time and is now in Te Awamutu should also get tested. Location of testing sites in and around Te Awamutu are available on the Healthpoint website (external link) and the Waikato DHB website. (external link) Vaccination is our number one protection against COVID-19. Residents of Te Awamutu who haven’t already been vaccinated are urged to do so today or this weekend for Super Saturday. There are several Super Saturday vaccination sites open in Te Awamutu. For more details of those and further sites in surrounding areas please see the Waikato DHB webpage (external link) .
85% of New Zealanders have now had their first dose, up 2% on Super Saturday. 65% of the population are fully vaccinated, up 3% on Super Saturday. Across the country, 10,825 Māori went out and got their first dose and a further 10,877 got their second dose, which has helped Māori vaccination levels jump a huge 5.4% since last Sunday. Overall, 65% of the Māori population or 375,000 people have now had their first dose - 250,000 of those are fully vaccinated. By ethnicity, Māori also had the highest proportion of first doses on Super Saturday, with 50% of all Māori vaccinations being the first dose. Congratulations to Kawerau District, which started Super Saturday with the lowest first dose rate in the country, but by the end of yesterday, it had the biggest daily percentage increase for first doses given. Māori vaccinations in Hawke’s Bay jumped a massive 3% on Super Saturday, with over 1,100 getting their first dose. A huge shout out to the Super Saturday vaccine centres with the highest first dose vaccinations rates - Park and Fly at Auckland Airport, PAK'nSAVE Napier and Christchurch Arena Carpark. Thank you to all those who were hesitant, but went out and got their vaccine yesterday. Now’s a great time to have a chat with friends and whanau, help answer any of their questions they might have, and encourage them to go out and get their vaccine today. --- Section Separator --- Overseas/unknown included in total.  Figures as at 11:59pm on 16 October --- Section Separator --- DHB of residence (Grouped) First Second First % Second % Auckland Metro Bay of Plenty Canterbury Capital & Coast and Hutt Valley Hawke's Bay Lakes MidCentral Nelson Marlborough Northland South Canterbury Southern Tairawhiti Taranaki Waikato Wairarapa West Coast Whanganui New Zealand Overseas/unknown included in total.  Figures as at 11:59pm on 16 October --- Section Separator --- DHB of Residence First Second Total Total % Pop Auckland Metro Bay of Plenty Canterbury Capital & Coast and Hutt Valley Hawke's Bay Lakes MidCentral Nelson Marlborough Northland South Canterbury Southern Tairawhiti Taranaki Waikato Wairarapa West Coast Whanganui New Zealand Overseas/unknown included in total.  Figures as at 11:59pm on 16 October --- Section Separator --- DHB of residence (Grouped) First Second Total Total % Pop Auckland Metro Bay of Plenty Canterbury Capital & Coast and Hutt Valley Hawke's Bay Lakes MidCentral Nelson Marlborough Northland South Canterbury Southern Tairawhiti Taranaki Waikato Wairarapa West Coast Whanganui New Zealand Overseas/unknown included in total.  Figures as at 11:59pm on 16 October DHB of residence (Grouped) First Second First % Second % Auckland Metro Bay of Plenty Canterbury Capital & Coast and Hutt Valley Hawke's Bay Lakes MidCentral Nelson Marlborough Northland South Canterbury Southern Tairawhiti Taranaki Waikato Wairarapa West Coast Whanganui New Zealand Overseas/unknown included in total.  Figures as at 11:59pm on 16 October Note: If more people receive a COVID-19 vaccine than used health services in 2020 for a specific population, we see a coverage rate of over 100%. --- Section Separator --- Territorial Authority Population First Dose Increase First dose difference as % of pop Kawerau District Central Hawke's Bay District Ashburton District Grey District Tararua District Territorial Authority Population Second Dose Increase Second dose difference as % of pop Ashburton District Central Hawke's Bay District Grey District Clutha District Queenstown-Lakes District Territorial Authority Population Combined Dose Increase Combined dose difference as % of pop Central Hawke's Bay District Ashburton District Grey District Clutha District Hauraki District
Super Saturday has smashed vaccination records with people rolling up their sleeves for their COVID-19 vaccinations today with 130,002 doses administered — 39,025 first doses and 90,977 second doses. Auckland now has 89% of its eligible people vaccinated with at least 1 dose. “I want to give a huge thanks to every eligible New Zealander who stepped up today and over the past few days to get their shot, as well as to the hundreds of health providers, businesses, workplaces and community organisations who’ve pulled out all the stops as part of the nationwide push for vaccination,” Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield said tonight. “People have turned out in droves to the 783 vaccination sites around the motu for their vaccinations — from free hangi at Pōtahi Marae in Northland’s Te Kao to vaccinations on the TSS Earnslaw on Lake Wakatipu in Queenstown. “It’s fantastic that Auckland has enjoyed its biggest ever vaccination day with 8,957 people getting their first doses and 31,686 people receiving their second doses.” “It’s also the biggest ever day for Māori vaccinations with 10,941 first doses and 10,874 second doses. I want to thank Māori providers for their enormous amount of mahi that has gone into making today such a success. “It was also a great day for the Pacific community with 4,223 first doses and 8,093 second doses. “I also want to thank all those involved with our first ever ‘Vaxathon’ — both those behind the scenes and those in front of the cameras who united to energise and celebrate this historic vaccination day, encourages New Zealanders — particularly young Māori, Pacific and tāngata whaikaha (those living with a disability) — to get vaccinated. “It’s also been inspirational to see the many novel and creative ways our District Health Boards (DHBs), general practices, pharmacies and hauora, businesses and other community organisations have encouraged their communities to get vaccinated. “We take our hats off to the thousands of vaccinators, volunteers, DHB and healthcare staff, community helpers, logistics teams, delivery people, Healthline call centre takers and everyone else who played their part, without whom this result would not have been possible. “It also now means that 3,565,692 New Zealanders — or 85% of New Zealand’s eligible population, have had at least 1 vaccination, and 2,748,291 people (or 65%) are fully vaccinated. That’s an awesome effort Aotearoa! “Even if you were not able to get out and get a jab today, don’t worry, there are still lots of opportunities to get vaccinated, with the usual huge range of vaccination sites continuing to operate as normal across the motu beyond this weekend. “Super Saturday has been a shot in the arm for the final stage of our COVID-19 vaccination programme and we now need to finish the job to protect all New Zealanders from the virus. “Getting every eligible New Zealander vaccinated has never been more important, nor has it been more easy, so if you haven’t already, please step up and get your shot. Or, if you know of a friend or whānau member who hasn’t, please support them to get theirs.” To book a vaccination, go to Bookmyvaccine.nz (external link) , or call the COVID Vaccine Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . Final vaccination numbers for Super Saturday will be published on Sunday 17 October. Note: we updated the final tally of vaccinations at 1pm on 17 October 2021.
As part of the COVID-19 Response Legislation Bill introduced to Parliament, measures are being taken to help businesses resolve disputes over commercial rent, as well as provide greater certainty for landlords and tenants by protecting residential tenancies from being terminated during COVID-19 Alert Level 4. With regards to commercial rental situations, we have heard the concerns from business operators unable to meet full rental costs while their incomes have been hit by COVID restrictions needed to contain the spread of the virus. Therefore an amendment to the Property Law Act is proposed to insert a clause into commercial leases requiring a ‘fair proportion’ of rent to be paid where a tenant has been unable to fully conduct their business in their premises due to the COVID-19 restrictions. Landlord and tenant would need to agree on the amount of rent that is fair. They could also agree that the clause does not apply. Arbitration will be required where landlords and tenants are unable to come to agreement about a fair rent proportion, unless they agree to an alternative dispute resolution process such as mediation. Once the law is passed, the implied clause would take effect from today, 28 September 2021. The proposed law change would only apply to leases which do not already provide for adjusted rent payment terms during an epidemic emergency. Therefore, agreements made prior to 28 September 2021 to adjust rent obligations to reflect the COVID-19 situation would not be affected by the implied clause. This change helps to ensure that landlords and tenants come to reasonable agreements about rent obligations, while still respecting agreements that have already been made. In principle agreements need to reflect the uniqueness of the current COVID-19 situation, and provide the means by which both landlords and tenants can share the financial burden of the impact of COVID-19 restrictions. The Residential Tenancies Act changes will enable restrictions against residential tenancy terminations to be switched on and off by Ministerial order — making the new changes flexible and responsive. This is about future-proofing tenancy law and provides much needed certainty and clarity for landlords and tenants. The changes are to be considered as a part of a short select committee process on the COVID-19 Response Legislation Bill and Ministers encourage those affected to make submissions, including from when the commercial rent clause should be effective. The legislation will be similar to the no tenancy termination measures in place last year, but with some key differences. Tenancy termination restrictions will not apply for a fixed period of time. Instead, the restrictions will be able to be switched on and off by Ministerial order. Existing termination notices will not be cancelled. For most tenancies, the notice period will continue to run while the restrictions are in place, but after the restrictions lift, tenants will get a top up to a minimum of 28 days’ notice. This legislation will not include a rent increase freeze like last time. The Government has made multiple changes to improve the security and rights of renters, including limiting rent increases to once a year, (which came into effect on 12 August 2020). This was not in place during the last lockdown.
The person has been transferred to an MIQ facility. They are being interviewed and any new locations of interest in Auckland and Northland will be posted on the Ministry of Health website as they become available. We can also report that 18 contacts have been identified as associated with the first Northland case. Contact tracers have made contact with 17 of these individuals, one of whom is the travelling companion and four who are household contacts. All 17 of these individuals have been tested. The remaining contact is being actively followed up by contact tracers and will be advised to get a test. Of the 18 contacts identified, nine are in Northland, seven are in Auckland, one is in Wellington, and one is still to be determined. We previously reported 19 contacts, however one of these was a double entry which has now been rectified. Northland DHB has stepped up testing and screening at Northland hospitals for visitors and patients. Anyone with symptoms should get tested and people in Auckland and Northland should continue checking the Ministry’s website for new locations of interest. Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay says this would help limit any potential spread of infection from the case. Public health interviews with the case are underway to confirm their movements says Dr McElnay. The DHBs are also encouraging vaccination at general practice, pharmacy, Māori health providers and DHB clinics.
From 4 October, the Ministry of Health will begin trialling use of Near Field Communications (NFC) tags with the NZ COVID Tracer app at Te Herenga Waka — Victoria University of Wellington and a number of small businesses. People with a compatible phone and the latest version of the NZ COVID Tracer app will be able to hold their phone against a small NFC tag to record a diary entry. They will just need to unlock their phone and hold it near the tag, which will automatically open the app and add the diary entry. The app displays the green success screen to confirm a successful entry. The NFC tags will usually be placed near existing QR code posters, so they will be easy to find. “This trial is part of our ongoing commitment to investigate technologies that enhance and support our COVID-19 response,” says Shayne Hunter, Deputy Director-General Data & Digital at the Ministry of Health. “Keeping a digital diary of the places we've visited can really help with rapid contact tracing when a case of COVID-19 is detected. We already have a private, easy way to do that with the NZ COVID Tracer app, so we’ll be looking to see in this trial if NFC tags can make the app even easier to use.” The trial will run for up to 4 weeks and will inform decisions about a potential wider rollout. The NFC technology will not replace QR codes. Phones which do not support the NFC functionality can still scan QR codes to record entries in their digital diaries. Phil O’Connell, Director Safety, Risk and Assurance at Te Herenga Waka, says the university is pleased to partner with the Ministry of Health to trial a new technology that will enhance and support New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. “Our community of staff and students are good adopters of new technologies, given our focus on research and new knowledge. This trial, aimed at making it easy for New Zealanders to keep track of where they’ve been, fits with our university’s commitment to innovation and new knowledge that can help solve key issues that face us.” Adding a diary entry via NFC tag will have the same privacy protections as scanning and using Bluetooth tracing with the app. All data will be stored on the user’s phone, until they choose to share it. People are only asked to share their digital diary if they test positive for COVID-19. The tap in tags will be placed in public spaces around Victoria University of Wellington's Kelburn, Pipitea and Te Aro campuses. Two cafes in Molesworth Street — Mojo Summit and Hauora — and a Wellington Fitness Centre, HealthFit Collective, will also be part of the trial. There are now more than 3 million NZ COVID Tracer app users and over 2 million users have enabled Bluetooth tracing. Thank you to everyone who is routinely using the NZ COVID Tracer app and those who are keeping regular notes and diaries. Your efforts are helping New Zealand's response to COVID-19 and making contact tracing an easier task.
One case is in Raglan and the other is in Hamilton East. The case in Raglan is self-isolating at this stage and will be moved to a quarantine facility. The Waikato District Health Board is today carrying out further interviews with this person. This case was tested on 1 October after feeling unwell. Their infectious period is determined to be from 27 September. This person has three household contacts who are also isolating. A pop-up testing centre will be operating at the Raglan Rugby Grounds car park on Cross Street from midday and anyone in Raglan with symptoms is urged to please get a test today. The second case is a known contact of the Raglan case and was tested after becoming unwell. This person, who lives in Hamilton, was transferred safely to Waikato Hospital where they are being treated for COVID-19-related symptoms. Their household contacts are currently self-isolating. Potential links with both cases to the Auckland outbreak are being worked through. More information on the case will be released later today. --- Section Separator --- A number of exposure events for both cases are in the process of being worked through by public health staff. Any that are locations of interest will be listed on the Ministry of Health website. Regularly check locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The testing centres at the Founders Theatre car park in Hamilton CBD will have additional capacity added today and a pop-up centre at the Claudelands Event Centre will be set up. Anyone in Hamilton who has COVID-19 symptoms is asked to please get tested, and isolate until you receive your result. There are also walk-in vaccinations available in Hamilton today at the super-site at Te Awa – The Base, as well as other sites around the city. Find an open testing centre near you | healthpoint.co.nz (external link)
As of this morning, 2,018,305 people were fully vaccinated with two doses, representing 48 percent of people aged 12 and over. 3,328,286 people have had at least one dose – that’s 79 percent of people aged 12 and over. Each and every person vaccinated increases our protection and reduces the need for lockdown measures. This achievement is also testament to the great effort of New Zealand’s health workers who’ve been working long and hard to deliver the largest vaccination programme in our history. These workers have stepped up across the country – and particularly at our testing centres and vaccination clinics in Auckland – and they’re continuing to deliver numbers we can all be proud of. With 5,346,591 doses administered so far, and 1,067,000 active bookings in the Book My Vaccine system, the response of New Zealanders means we’re on track to our goal of having all eligible people vaccinated by the end of the year. In Auckland to date, a total of 1,950,883 vaccinations have been delivered – with more than 1.2 million first doses and almost 750,000 second doses. The vaccination programme continues to adapt with new and different approaches, such as drive through vaccination centres and more mobile and pop-up testing sites, and a lot more innovations are to come. The best ongoing defence against the impact of COVID-19 will be for as many New Zealanders as possible to get vaccinated - the more people who’re vaccinated the harder it becomes for the virus to keep moving. Make your appointments now - every dose counts. Book your COVID-19 vaccination
There are 60 new community cases today, 56 in Auckland; 3 in Waikato and 1 in the Bay of Plenty. The three new Waikato cases are linked to the initial Hamilton East case. The Bay of Plenty case was reported publicly last evening and is included in today’s numbers. Of the Auckland cases, 37 have known links to existing cases (including 22 household contacts) and 17 remain under investigation. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
There are 65 new community cases today. As at 11am, 34 of these cases are linked, 10 are household contacts, and 31 remain unlinked with investigations continuing to help determine their connection to the current outbreak. 65 community cases of COVID-19 — all are in Auckland 1 case in managed isolation 88% of Aucklanders have 1 vaccine dose 27,766 tests were taken yesterday Vaccination remains our number one protection against COVID-19. We are asking everyone in Aotearoa to either get vaccinated or support someone to get vaccinated as part of Super Saturday – our national day of action for vaccination, tomorrow (16 October 2021). There will be more than 120 extra vaccination sites open, with many sites operating with extended hours and events and prizes on offer around the regions. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
There are 41 new community cases today. As at 10am, 20 of these cases are linked, 13 of which are household contacts and 21 remain unlinked with investigations continuing to help determine their connection to the current outbreak. 41 community cases of COVID-19 — 40 in Auckland, 1 in Waikato 2 case in managed isolation 69% of Aucklanders have 2 vaccine dose 24,285 tests were taken yesterday Super Saturday has kicked off strongly this morning with thousands of people around the country rolling up their sleeves for their COVID-19 vaccinations. By 1pm, 69,582 people have been vaccinated today, 19,773 with their first dose and 49,809 with their second dose. Today’s numbers include 5,443 first doses and 6,004 second doses for Māori. Today, 1,979 Pacific people have received their first vaccination and 4,215 the second dose. In Auckland today 4,490 Aucklanders have had their first dose and 17,714 their second. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
There are 51 new community cases today: 47 are in Auckland, and 4 are in the Waikato. As at 9am today, 28 of these cases are linked, of whom 18 are household contacts, and 23 remain unlinked with investigations continuing to help determine their connection to the current outbreak. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Super Saturday provided a huge boost to New Zealand’s response to COVID-19, with a record-breaking 130,002 people putting their arms out for vaccinations yesterday, Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield said. “People across the motu embraced Super Saturday like their communities’ lives depended on it.  It was inspiring to witness as we know the COVID-19 vaccine is key to our efforts to control the virus. “Auckland did incredibly well with its biggest ever vaccination day and I congratulate and thank everyone there who stepped forward to protect themselves, their whānau and their community — 41,081 people were vaccinated there yesterday, including 9,039 first doses and 32,042 second doses. “They’ve hit 89% of their eligible population who have had their first dose and are tantalisingly close to reaching 90%. I continue to urge everyone in Auckland who hasn’t received their first vaccination to get vaccinated as soon as possible. And remember, we’re not stopping at 90% — the higher, the better for everyone.” At the start of yesterday, we needed 29,399 more people in Auckland to get their first dose to reach 90% so we’re only 20,360 short. Over the past week, Auckland averaged about 4,000 first doses daily so we’re on track to reach that milestone this week. A more detailed breakdown of the vaccination data by District Health Board will be released shortly.
There are 60 new community cases today: 57 in Auckland, and 3 in the Waikato. As at 10am, 36 of these cases are linked — 18 of which are household contacts — and 24 remain unlinked, with investigations continuing to help determine their connection to the outbreak. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
27 community cases of COVID-19 1 case in managed isolation More than 1.9 million second doses of vaccine administered to date 22,041 tests were taken yesterday, including more than 13,083 swabs taken in the Auckland region Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
29 community cases of COVID-19. 28 are in Auckland, and 1 is in Waikato. 2 cases in managed isolation More than 2.0 million second doses of vaccine administered to date 13,693 tests were taken yesterday, including 7420 swabs taken in the Auckland region Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
There are 44 community cases of COVID-19. 41 are in Auckland, and 3 are in Waikato. There are 3 cases in managed isolation. Today's cases are higher than recent days. This is not unexpected because there have been a number of contacts of new cases and we can expect to get fluctuations from day to day. 29,925 tests were taken yesterday, including 10,439 swabs taken in the Auckland region. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
There are 34 new community cases today, of which 23 have already been linked to the outbreak (of which 11 are household contacts) and 11 are still being investigated to determine how they are linked. All the new Waikato cases are linked to the initial Hamilton East case. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Results were received for two household members of the Auckland-based truck driver who is isolating in Palmerston North, and eight household members from the case in Hamilton East. The results of three household members of the Raglan case, who have now all been moved to an Auckland quarantine facility, are expected back later tonight and will be announced tomorrow. --- Section Separator --- Waikato DHB advises there has been a strong response to calls for people in Hamilton with symptoms to get tested. Our thanks to everyone who has stepped up to be tested. The testing centres at Founders and Claudelands have reached capacity for today and the DHB is now asking that anyone who hasn’t been tested today, gets tested tomorrow. There will be a number of testing opportunities in Hamilton and the Waikato available tomorrow from 8am, including at some GP clinics, and these will be listed on the Healthpoint website. Hamilton residents who are symptomatic should self-isolate and seek a test in the morning. Alternatively they can visit Victoria Clinic & Urgent Care at 173 Anglesea Street, Hamilton, before 8pm, after calling first on 07 834 0333 to make an appointment. COVID-19 symptoms include fever, new or worsening cough, sore throat, shortness of breath, sneezing and runny nose, and temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste. The Ministry of Health locations of interest page provides specific guidance for each location and people are urged to check this page regularly. Anyone who is not symptomatic and has not visited a location of interest, does not need to get tested at this point. Testing for symptomatic people is free. If you haven’t already been vaccinated, tomorrow is a good time. Please don’t put it off.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 11-20 of 610 updates 12 Oct 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 12 Oct 2021 The travelling companion of the first Northland case, who was located by Police in West Auckland last night, has now tested positive for COVID-19. 11 Oct 2021 Large parts of two workforces critical to preventing the spread of COVID-19 will be required to be vaccinated. 11 Oct 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 10 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Oct 2021 The Ministry of Health is today confirming the results of a COVID-19 test taken yesterday in Auckland, which has returned positive today for a person currently 09 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Oct 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 6:30pm. 08 Oct 2021 Northland will move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm tonight. These settings will be reviewed by Cabinet on Monday. 08 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 21-30 of 610 updates 07 Oct 2021 A case that was under investigation after returning a weak positive result from a test in Whangarei earlier this week has today returned a positive test result 07 Oct 2021 Following public health advice, the Government has agreed to extend the Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary to the south. 07 Oct 2021 The Government and businesses are working together to pilot the use of rapid antigen testing in workplaces. 07 Oct 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 06 Oct 2021 With over half the eligible population now fully vaccinated and more than 80% with at least one dose, we’ve all got to do our bit to reach the remaining 20%. 06 Oct 2021 A new team has been mobilised to support disabled people to access transport and get vaccinated in a way that suits their needs. 06 Oct 2021 The Ministry of Health has provided further details of the death reported earlier today in Middlemore hospital linked to COVID-19. 06 Oct 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 05 Oct 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 04 Oct 2021 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has today set out a roadmap for Auckland to carefully move out of current Covid-19 restrictions.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 31-40 of 610 updates 04 Oct 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 04 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Oct 2021 More than 2 million people have now received two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine. 04 Oct 2021 The north west Waikato is now at Alert Level 3 for five days, a move will help limit possible further community transmission of the virus. 03 Oct 2021 All initial tests from household members of COVID-19 cases in Hamilton East and Palmerston North have this afternoon returned negative results. 03 Oct 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 03 Oct 2021 Full vaccination will become a requirement for non-New Zealand citizens arriving into the country from 1 November. 03 Oct 2021 The Ministry of Health has been notified of two new positive COVID-19 community cases in Waikato. 02 Oct 2021 An Auckland-based truck driver who travelled to Palmerston North for work purposes has tested positive for COVID-19. 02 Oct 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 41-50 of 610 updates 02 Oct 2021 A trial of NFC tags with the NZ COVID Tracer app at select locations around Wellington will begin on 4 October. 01 Oct 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 30 Sep 2021 Counties Manukau DHB has advised there are two COVID-19 exposure events at Middlemore Hospital. 30 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 29 Sep 2021 The Government is making a number of legislative changes to further strengthen New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. 29 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 29 Sep 2021 New Zealand’s border workers have stepped up to help protect their whānau and fellow Kiwis. 28 Sep 2021 You can now travel from Alert Level 3 to Alert Level 2 for relocating permanently, shared caregiving arrangements, or returning home. 28 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 28 Sep 2021 The Government has introduced changes to help ease the impacts of COVID-19 restrictions on both commercial and residential tenancies.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 51-60 of 610 updates 27 Sep 2021 The goal of safely re-opening our borders and developing new ways for people to travel will start with a self-isolation pilot. 27 Sep 2021 From 4 October RSE workers from Vanuatu can begin arriving. From 12 October RSE workers from Samoa and Tonga from can begin arriving. 27 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 27 Sep 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Sep 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Sep 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 Sep 2021 Upper Hauraki will move to Alert Level 2 from 11:59pm on 25 September 2021. 24 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 23 Sep 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 22 Sep 2021 Upper Hauraki has moved to Alert Level 3 in line with Auckland’s Alert Level change overnight.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 561-570 of 610 updates 27 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 27 Aug 2020 The Government has set aside extra funding so we can access a COVID-19 vaccine once it becomes available. 26 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 25 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 24 Aug 2020 Auckland will stay at Alert Level 3 until 11:59pm on 30 August 2020. The rest of the country will remain at Alert Level 2. 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 571-580 of 610 updates 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 581-590 of 610 updates 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 591-600 of 610 updates 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 601-610 of 610 updates 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Home Alert Levels and updates Legislation and key documents --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 103 KB] – updated 23 September 2021 Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 143 KB] – updated 24 September 2021 Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 103 KB] – updated 23 September 2021 Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 143 KB] – updated 24 September 2021 Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System Data and statistics Social media and newsletters Report a breach Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups
Home Alert Levels and updates Proactive releases The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. Make a direct request for official information Customs New Zealand Department for the Prime Minister and Cabinet Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Ministry of Health Border Executive Board --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. This includes papers, minutes, Official Information Act requests (OIAs) and key advice. These documents are proactively released in keeping with the Official Information Act 1982. --- Section Separator --- A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Section 9(2)(f)(iv) — confidential advice Section 9(2)(ba)(ii) — information provided to the Government under an obligation of confidence Section 6(a) — international relations Section 9(2)(j) — commercial negotiations.
When a significant event happens in a region, we will publish information on this page. --- Section Separator --- Advice on what to do if you are in Northland. Alert Level information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, and gatherings. Advice about what to do if you are in the parts of the Waikato at Alert Level 3. --- Section Separator --- Advice on what to do if you are in Northland. Alert Level information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, and gatherings. Advice about what to do if you are in the parts of the Waikato at Alert Level 3.
Ka pai, Tāmaki Makaurau! Your hard work is paying off. The increasing vaccination rate in the wider Auckland community means that Alert Level restrictions are being eased. --- Section Separator --- Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. This will be reviewed on Monday 1 November 2021. --- Section Separator --- In Auckland, restrictions under Alert Level 3 are being eased in 3 steps. This will allow friends and whānau to reconnect with each other and start to enjoy recreation, outings, and shopping at safe limits. At Alert Level 3, you must continue to wear a face covering at certain places, and to keep 2 metres away from people who are not in your bubble. Scan in to keep track of where you go. The easing of Alert Level 3 restrictions does not extend to the Northland and Waikato Alert Level 3 areas. There are no changes to the reasons for personal and business travel. The air and road boundaries between Auckland and the rest of the New Zealand, including the Alert Level 3 area in Northland and Waikato, remain in place. Moving to each step will depend on public health advice. Each step will be reviewed weekly. Check the Alert Level boundary map on this page to find the exact Auckland Alert Level 3 boundary. Alert Level boundary map --- Section Separator --- Auckland is now at Step 1 at Alert Level 3. Some restrictions have eased to allow you to meet close friends and whānau. You should continue to work or study from home if you can. You are encouraged to continue wearing a face covering when you leave your home and when physical distancing is not possible. Keep scanning QR codes, or keep another record of where you go. Outdoor social gatherings between 2 households can go ahead, with a maximum of 10 people. The natural ventilation outside makes it harder for the virus to spread. You can, for example, invite people from another household over for dinner in your backyard, but they cannot enter your house or use indoor facilities. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering and keep 2 metres apart from the other household. Tamariki (children) can have playdates with 1 other household at a time — as long it is outside and they do not go inside or use indoor facilities. You can meet close friends and whānau from 1 other household at the park for a picnic or BBQ. You cannot travel in the same vehicle as people from the other household. You can travel throughout the Auckland region for day trips to do an expanded range of outdoor recreation activities. A maximum of  2 households can gather, with a limit of 10 people. You must maintain 2 metre physical distancing. The following activities are permitted: golf hunting sailing and boating — all boating activities should be limited to people from the same household fishing from a private motorised boat or vessel scuba diving jetskiing recreational flying People from outside the Auckland region cannot travel into Auckland for recreation purposes. Outdoor exercise classes, for example, yoga or bootcamp, can take place with a maximum of 10 people, from 10 households. The limit includes the instructor taking the class. Everyone must stay 2 metres apart. We encourage you to wear a face covering when you are not exercising. You will not be able to use any indoor changing facilities. Find out more about sport and recreation at Alert Level 3 Early learning centres can reopen to all children, with a maximum of 10 children in each bubble. Parents and caregivers must wear a face covering when picking up and dropping off their tamariki. The Ministry of Health is asking early childhood teachers to get tested for COVID-19 before the return to teaching, even if they do not have symptoms. This testing is not a requirement, but is encouraged. Regular testing helps us to identify any undetected chains of transmission in the community. Find out more about education at Alert Level 3 in Auckland At Step 1 many activities cannot go ahead, and most facilities remain closed. Gyms and indoor recreation facilities cannot open. Overnight stays, for example at your bach or in AirBnB accommodation, cannot happen. Most team sports, such as basketball or volleyball, cannot go ahead. Camping, including hiring a campervan, cannot happen. Businesses must still be contactless, so close-contact businesses such as hairdressers and barbers cannot operate or visit your home, including your backyard. Dentists remain closed except for emergency or urgent care. You can only travel to Waiheke Island or Great Barrier Island (Aotea Island) for recreation if you are a resident there. Commercial tour or recreational businesses, such as kayak hire or boat tours, should not operate. Learn more about what you must do at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Auckland remains at Alert Level 3, but if the public health assessment tells us it is safe to do so, at step 2: retail can operate, with customers able to enter premises, wearing face coverings and keeping 2 metres apart public facilities like libraries and museums can reopen, with face coverings and 2-metre physical distancing required outdoor gatherings of up to 25 people can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- Auckland remains at Alert Level 3, but if the public health assessment tells us it is safe to do so, at step 3 : hospitality venues, like cafes, bars, and restaurants, can reopen with a limit of 50 people event facilities likes cinemas, casinos, and theatres can open with a limit of 50 people in a defined space, wearing face coverings and 2-metre physical distancing close contact businesses, like hairdressers, barbers and beauty salons, can reopen, with workers wearing face coverings social gatherings, indoors and outdoors, can take place with a limit of 50 people in a defined space. --- Section Separator --- The best way for Aucklanders to ensure that we can keep easing the restrictions is to get vaccinated and to follow the public health advice: wear a face covering, scan in, and get tested if you have symptoms of COVID 19. --- Section Separator --- As restrictions ease in Auckland more businesses will be able to open. Business operators must follow public health rules, including record keeping and physical distancing where possible. Some workers must wear a face covering. Doing business in Auckland Workplace operations at Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself, your whānau and your community. Vaccinations are free and are one of the most powerful tools against COVID-19. If you are aged 12 or over, you can get your vaccination now. Book your free vaccination now --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- As we work through this together, there are people and agencies able to support you. Free support services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week if you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others. Find contacts and support Financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress due to COVID-19. Financial support tool --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. If you are an at-risk person, you will need to take extra precautions. Advice for at-risk people at Alert Level 3
Home Alert Levels and updates Regional advice Northland --- Section Separator --- Northland will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 19 October 2021. What to do at Alert Level 2 Northland is at Alert Level 3. It will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 19 October 2021. What to do at Alert Level 3 You can help stamp out the virus by getting vaccinated. Visit a local vaccination centre now or book your vaccine today. Book your vaccine today Visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre today Any locations of interest will be listed on the Ministry of Health website. Regularly check locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are in Northland and you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should get tested and isolate until you have a negative result. Find a testing centre near you (external link) At Alert Level 3, make sure you follow all the public health rules to protect yourself, your whānau and our communities. There are restrictions on what you can do and where you can go at Alert Level 3. You should work from home if you can. Children and young people should learn from home. You can go to supermarkets and some food retailers, banks, pharmacies, petrol stations and some other places. Other businesses can open if they can have contactless pick-up or delivery, including takeaways. You can exercise outdoors, but stay close to home. Learn more about you must do at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example, going to work if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. Otherwise, you should stay home. If you must travel, carry evidence of the purpose of your travel and be prepared to explain your reasons for travel should you be stopped at a checkpoint or spot check. Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Restrictions on travel by road and air are in place. You can travel for limited permitted reasons. If you need to travel through a Northland airport to get home — for example, if you are on holiday in an Alert Level 2 area and live in the Northland Alert Level 3 area — you are permitted to travel home. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- Northland will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 19 October 2021. What to do at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Northland is at Alert Level 3. It will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 19 October 2021. What to do at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- You can help stamp out the virus by getting vaccinated. Visit a local vaccination centre now or book your vaccine today. Book your vaccine today Visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre today --- Section Separator --- Any locations of interest will be listed on the Ministry of Health website. Regularly check locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are in Northland and you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should get tested and isolate until you have a negative result. Find a testing centre near you (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, make sure you follow all the public health rules to protect yourself, your whānau and our communities. There are restrictions on what you can do and where you can go at Alert Level 3. You should work from home if you can. Children and young people should learn from home. You can go to supermarkets and some food retailers, banks, pharmacies, petrol stations and some other places. Other businesses can open if they can have contactless pick-up or delivery, including takeaways. You can exercise outdoors, but stay close to home. Learn more about you must do at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example, going to work if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. Otherwise, you should stay home. If you must travel, carry evidence of the purpose of your travel and be prepared to explain your reasons for travel should you be stopped at a checkpoint or spot check. Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Restrictions on travel by road and air are in place. You can travel for limited permitted reasons. If you need to travel through a Northland airport to get home — for example, if you are on holiday in an Alert Level 2 area and live in the Northland Alert Level 3 area — you are permitted to travel home. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- Northland Auckland Waikato
Home Alert Levels and updates Regional advice Waikato --- Section Separator --- Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. This will be reviewed on Friday 22 October 2021. These parts include: Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti Waipa District Ōtorohanga District Raglan Te Kauwhata Huntly Ngāruawāhia Hamilton City and some surrounding areas View the Alert Level boundary map You can help stamp out the virus by getting vaccinated. Visit a local vaccination centre now or book your vaccine today. Book your vaccine today Visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre today Any locations of interest will be listed on the Ministry of Health website. Regularly check locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) Anyone in Hamilton who has COVID-19 symptoms is asked to please get tested, and isolate until you receive your result. There are also walk-in vaccinations available in Hamilton today at the super-site at Te Awa – The Base, as well as other sites around the city. Find an open testing centre near you | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) At Alert Level 3, make sure you follow all the public health rules to protect yourself, your whānau and our communities. There are restrictions on what you can do and where you can go at Alert Level 3. You should work from home if you can. Children and young people should learn from home. You can go to supermarkets and some food retailers, banks, pharmacies, petrol stations and some other places. Other businesses can open if they can have contactless pick-up or delivery, including takeaways. You can exercise outdoors, but stay close to home. Learn more about you must do at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example, going to work if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. Otherwise, you should stay home. If you must travel, carry evidence of the purpose of your travel and be prepared to explain your reasons for travel should you be stopped at a checkpoint or spot check. Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Restrictions on travel by road and air are in place. You can travel for limited permitted reasons. If you need to travel through Hamilton airport to get home — for example, if you are on holiday in an Alert Level 2 area and live in the Waikato Alert Level 3 area — you are permitted to travel home. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. This will be reviewed on Friday 22 October 2021. These parts include: Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti Waipa District Ōtorohanga District Raglan Te Kauwhata Huntly Ngāruawāhia Hamilton City and some surrounding areas View the Alert Level boundary map --- Section Separator --- You can help stamp out the virus by getting vaccinated. Visit a local vaccination centre now or book your vaccine today. Book your vaccine today Visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre today --- Section Separator --- Any locations of interest will be listed on the Ministry of Health website. Regularly check locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Anyone in Hamilton who has COVID-19 symptoms is asked to please get tested, and isolate until you receive your result. There are also walk-in vaccinations available in Hamilton today at the super-site at Te Awa – The Base, as well as other sites around the city. Find an open testing centre near you | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, make sure you follow all the public health rules to protect yourself, your whānau and our communities. There are restrictions on what you can do and where you can go at Alert Level 3. You should work from home if you can. Children and young people should learn from home. You can go to supermarkets and some food retailers, banks, pharmacies, petrol stations and some other places. Other businesses can open if they can have contactless pick-up or delivery, including takeaways. You can exercise outdoors, but stay close to home. Learn more about you must do at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example, going to work if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. Otherwise, you should stay home. If you must travel, carry evidence of the purpose of your travel and be prepared to explain your reasons for travel should you be stopped at a checkpoint or spot check. Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Restrictions on travel by road and air are in place. You can travel for limited permitted reasons. If you need to travel through Hamilton airport to get home — for example, if you are on holiday in an Alert Level 2 area and live in the Waikato Alert Level 3 area — you are permitted to travel home. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- Northland Auckland Waikato
Home Alert Levels and updates Report a breach --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Alert Level restrictions managed isolation requirements. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Alert Level restrictions managed isolation requirements. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System Data and statistics Social media and newsletters Report a breach Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups
Home Alert Levels and updates Social media and newsletters --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) TikTok (external link) YouTube (external link) We’re here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have two simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. Get Unite against COVID-19 tiles you can use on your social media. Social media tiles Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) TikTok (external link) YouTube (external link) We’re here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have two simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. Get Unite against COVID-19 tiles you can use on your social media. Social media tiles --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Alert Level 4 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System Data and statistics Social media and newsletters Report a breach Legislation and key documents Proactive releases Independent Advisory Groups
Information for businesses and employees on working safely during COVID-19 and financial support and services available. You might be interested in: Advice for Auckland businesses Get your QR code poster Financial support If your business is a location of interest Golden rules for businesses --- Section Separator --- Advice and resources for businesses on keeping workers and others safe from COVID-19, operating safely at different Alert Levels and financial support. Find out what you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and your workmates safe from COVID-19 while you're at work. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Get help from the free business helpline, and support for Māori businesses and tourism businesses. Download and print these resources — including posters, signs and resources to record visitors and customers. --- Section Separator --- Advice and resources for businesses on keeping workers and others safe from COVID-19, operating safely at different Alert Levels and financial support. Find out what you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and your workmates safe from COVID-19 while you're at work. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. Get help from the free business helpline, and support for Māori businesses and tourism businesses. Download and print these resources — including posters, signs and resources to record visitors and customers. --- Section Separator --- Download and print signs and posters to help keep your workplace safe.
Home Business and money Business helpline and resources --- Section Separator --- This toolkit contains information and resources to help workplaces, non-profit groups and other organisations to support the national vaccine and immunisation programme — and most importantly, ensure your people are protected from COVID-19. COVID-19 Vaccine Business and workplace toolkit [PDF, 2.7 MB] A free COVID-19 business helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. This includes sole traders. Get support and advice on: government financial support, for example Wage Subsidy Scheme and Resurgence Support Payment what different Alert Levels mean for your business business continuity finding free or subsidised expert help, for example a business mentor or advisor. Employers can also get specific advice on people challenges, including staffing changes, employee wellness, and meeting your health and safety obligations. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you have an enquiry about the Alert Level 4 rules or if you are unsure if you can operate, you can call 0800 424 946 for advice. Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, modifying and terminating employment agreements, and vaccinations. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) Vaccines and the workplace (external link) COVID-19 vaccinations — Q+As for employers (external link) Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Connected can assist with: employment advice and tools to set up and run, or manage closure of your business information for businesses to build capabilities of your workforce information on financial help available to businesses affected by COVID-19. For more information call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) For specialist business advice for Māori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: RBP Growth Advisors in your region who can help you find the right support free webinars tailored to specific business needs business mentoring support via Business Mentors New Zealand. NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Register for tourism advisory support services (external link) Latest information on the tourism recovery programme (external link) Sign up for Tourism New Zealand’s newsletter (external link) --- Section Separator --- This toolkit contains information and resources to help workplaces, non-profit groups and other organisations to support the national vaccine and immunisation programme — and most importantly, ensure your people are protected from COVID-19. COVID-19 Vaccine Business and workplace toolkit [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- A free COVID-19 business helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. This includes sole traders. Get support and advice on: government financial support, for example Wage Subsidy Scheme and Resurgence Support Payment what different Alert Levels mean for your business business continuity finding free or subsidised expert help, for example a business mentor or advisor. Employers can also get specific advice on people challenges, including staffing changes, employee wellness, and meeting your health and safety obligations. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you have an enquiry about the Alert Level 4 rules or if you are unsure if you can operate, you can call 0800 424 946 for advice. --- Section Separator --- Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, modifying and terminating employment agreements, and vaccinations. Guidance for employers and employees (external link) Vaccines and the workplace (external link) COVID-19 vaccinations — Q+As for employers (external link) --- Section Separator --- Connected is a service to help New Zealanders connect to the wide range of employment, education and training support and advice available through government agencies. Connected can assist with: employment advice and tools to set up and run, or manage closure of your business information for businesses to build capabilities of your workforce information on financial help available to businesses affected by COVID-19. For more information call 0800 264 737 or visit the Connected website: Connected.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- For specialist business advice for Māori business owners and employers call 0800 4 POUTAMA ( 0800 476 882 ) Te Arawhiti can help iwi to connect with funding and services to help Māori recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. Email IwiResponsePlan@tearawhiti.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Trade and Enterprise (NZTE) runs the Regional Business Partners Network (RBP) to support New Zealand businesses and service providers. The network offers: RBP Growth Advisors in your region who can help you find the right support free webinars tailored to specific business needs business mentoring support via Business Mentors New Zealand. NZTE also offers export-specific information relating to COVID-19 (external link) NZTE’s COVID-19 Business Advisory Funding provides support in areas such as HR, health and wellbeing, business continuity, cashflow and finance management, strategy and digital capability. NZTE information on Regional Business Partner Network and other business support (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help is available for tourism businesses to navigate a sustainable way forward through the COVID-19 crisis. Tourism advisory support services can help you work through the range of options available to keep your business running. These may include pivoting your business toward the domestic market, preparing for the Australian market, how to hibernate a business and other options. Register for tourism advisory support services (external link) Latest information on the tourism recovery programme (external link) Sign up for Tourism New Zealand’s newsletter (external link) --- Section Separator --- Businesses Employees Financial support Business helpline and resources Signs and posters for your workplace
At Alert Level 1, all businesses can operate if they can do so safely. At Alert Level 2 all businesses can open with some restrictions, including physical distancing, use of face coverings and record keeping. At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Find out if your business can operate at Alert Level 4. Operators of busy places and events legally must have ways for everyone 12 years and over to record their visits at all Alert Levels. Help your people keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. A fully vaccinated workforce will help keep your workplace safe from COVID-19. You can do your part by supporting your employees to get vaccinated when it is their turn. Vaccinations are mandatory for workers at the border and in managed isolation, and workers in the education and health and disability sectors. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all businesses can operate if they can do so safely. At Alert Level 2 all businesses can open with some restrictions, including physical distancing, use of face coverings and record keeping. At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Find out if your business can operate at Alert Level 4. Operators of busy places and events legally must have ways for everyone 12 years and over to record their visits at all Alert Levels. Help your people keep track of where they’ve been by displaying an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. A fully vaccinated workforce will help keep your workplace safe from COVID-19. You can do your part by supporting your employees to get vaccinated when it is their turn. Vaccinations are mandatory for workers at the border and in managed isolation, and workers in the education and health and disability sectors.
Home Business and money Businesses Doing business at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- We all have a part to play in keeping ourselves and others safe from COVID-19. Make sure: you display your QR code your workers stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work you encourage all workers to keep track of where they have been Many Alert Level 1 businesses and services will be legally required to provide safe and secure ways for everyone 12 years and over who enters their premises or location to record their visits. Businesses must legally display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to provide an alternative way for customers and visitors to record their visit. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: the entry and exit times for workers, visitors and contractors the names of everyone on your premises or location their contact details. Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Find out more about mandatory record keeping At Alert Level 1, all public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. You can help your customers get into the habit of using the NZ COVID Tracer app by encouraging them to scan in to your workplace. The more we scan, the safer we will be. Encourage workers to turn on Bluetooth tracing. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people we've been near. Get your QR code poster, and guidance on how to display it Bluetooth tracing If your workers are sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, ask them to stay home and get health advice. They can call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 their doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or their iwi health provider. Support workers to get tested. Workers are entitled to take sick leave if they are sick. If you have a staff member who has run out of sick leave, check whether you are eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Symptoms of COVID-19 Information about staying home if you are sick COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) Your workers should tell you if they: are unwell, or have symptoms of COVID-19 have been in contact with someone who has COVID-19 have visited a location of interest have been asked to get a COVID-19 test If workers have COVID-19 like symptoms, they shouldn’t come back to work until they have either recovered or have been tested and cleared from having COVID-19 and are no longer symptomatic. Regularly check in with your workers who are unwell to make sure they can return to work safely. Guidance for workplaces that have a case of COVID-19 (external link) Ask anyone who has cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms not to enter your workplace. Display signs at entrances to let people know they should not enter if they feel unwell. Set up flexible work arrangements so workers do not feel pressured to come into work when they are unwell. Flexible work arrangements can include working from home, working from another location, or changing the hours of work. Workers may also feel anxious about returning to work after they have been unwell. Support workers to look after their mental health and wellbeing while they work away from the office. Looking after mental health and wellbeing during COVID-19 (external link) Encourage workers to keep up hygiene practises by: washing their hands using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying them thoroughly coughing and sneezing into their elbow keeping shared surfaces clean avoiding sharing tools or personal objects. If workers do need to share items, encourage them to clean or sanitise them between uses. How to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Provide handwashing facilities so everyone can regularly wash and dry their hands. Provide hand sanitisers for all workers and customers, for example at entrances to your workplace. Regularly clean and disinfect shared spaces, including high touch areas such as counters, EFTPOS terminals, door handles and lift buttons. Public health guidance on cleaning practises for businesses (external link) Physical distancing means keeping a safe distance from others. There are no requirements for physical distancing at Alert Level 1, but the more space there is between people, the harder it is for COVID-19 and other viruses like the flu to spread. You can help reduce the risk of infection from COVID-19 through physical distancing by: limiting the number of people allowed in enclosed spaces such as lifts allowing space between people as they enter or leave your workplace split shifts staggered meal breaks flexible work arrangements, for example being able to work from home. Always discuss any changes with your workers first. If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- We all have a part to play in keeping ourselves and others safe from COVID-19. Make sure: you display your QR code your workers stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work you encourage all workers to keep track of where they have been --- Section Separator --- Many Alert Level 1 businesses and services will be legally required to provide safe and secure ways for everyone 12 years and over who enters their premises or location to record their visits. Businesses must legally display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to provide an alternative way for customers and visitors to record their visit. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: the entry and exit times for workers, visitors and contractors the names of everyone on your premises or location their contact details. Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Find out more about mandatory record keeping --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, all public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. You can help your customers get into the habit of using the NZ COVID Tracer app by encouraging them to scan in to your workplace. The more we scan, the safer we will be. Encourage workers to turn on Bluetooth tracing. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people we've been near. Get your QR code poster, and guidance on how to display it Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- If your workers are sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, ask them to stay home and get health advice. They can call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 their doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or their iwi health provider. Support workers to get tested. Workers are entitled to take sick leave if they are sick. If you have a staff member who has run out of sick leave, check whether you are eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Symptoms of COVID-19 Information about staying home if you are sick COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) Your workers should tell you if they: are unwell, or have symptoms of COVID-19 have been in contact with someone who has COVID-19 have visited a location of interest have been asked to get a COVID-19 test If workers have COVID-19 like symptoms, they shouldn’t come back to work until they have either recovered or have been tested and cleared from having COVID-19 and are no longer symptomatic. Regularly check in with your workers who are unwell to make sure they can return to work safely. Guidance for workplaces that have a case of COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ask anyone who has cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms not to enter your workplace. Display signs at entrances to let people know they should not enter if they feel unwell. --- Section Separator --- Set up flexible work arrangements so workers do not feel pressured to come into work when they are unwell. Flexible work arrangements can include working from home, working from another location, or changing the hours of work. Workers may also feel anxious about returning to work after they have been unwell. Support workers to look after their mental health and wellbeing while they work away from the office. Looking after mental health and wellbeing during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Encourage workers to keep up hygiene practises by: washing their hands using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying them thoroughly coughing and sneezing into their elbow keeping shared surfaces clean avoiding sharing tools or personal objects. If workers do need to share items, encourage them to clean or sanitise them between uses. How to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Provide handwashing facilities so everyone can regularly wash and dry their hands. Provide hand sanitisers for all workers and customers, for example at entrances to your workplace. Regularly clean and disinfect shared spaces, including high touch areas such as counters, EFTPOS terminals, door handles and lift buttons. Public health guidance on cleaning practises for businesses (external link) --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing means keeping a safe distance from others. There are no requirements for physical distancing at Alert Level 1, but the more space there is between people, the harder it is for COVID-19 and other viruses like the flu to spread. You can help reduce the risk of infection from COVID-19 through physical distancing by: limiting the number of people allowed in enclosed spaces such as lifts allowing space between people as they enter or leave your workplace split shifts staggered meal breaks flexible work arrangements, for example being able to work from home. Always discuss any changes with your workers first. --- Section Separator --- If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Doing business at Alert Level 4 Record keeping and contact tracing Get your QR code poster Vaccine information for businesses Mandatory vaccinations for workers
Home Business and money Businesses Doing business at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, all businesses can operate and have customers on their premises if they can do so safely. All workers should keep at least 1 metre apart, where possible. To help everyone physically distance safely, you can: limit the number of people allowed in enclosed spaces such as lifts offer flexible working options, for example working from home have virtual meetings instead of meeting in person If you own or run a business where staff cannot work home, you may want to stagger start times to limit cross over between staff. If your business has customers on site, you need to meet physical distancing requirements. This may mean you need to limit the number of people that can enter your premises at any given time so people can safely physically distance. You can also limit customer contact by offering contactless payment options and providing contactless deliveries. In places like retail stores, shopping malls, libraries, gyms, museums, swimming pools, and parts of offices where customers may be present, customers and clients on the premises need to stay 2 metres apart. At hospitality venues — for example, cafes, restaurants and bars, and event facilities —for example, cinemas, theatres or stadiums customers on the premises only need to keep 1 metre apart. There are specific rules for businesses in hospitality, retail and in-home services and businesses organising events or gatherings. Eating out at Alert Level 2 Retail and in-home services at Alert Level 2 Events and gatherings at Alert Level 2 Advice for businesses that normally have customers on site | business.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is not open to the public — for example, an office or a factory floor, workers only need to keep 1 metre apart. There is no limit on the number of people that can be on the workplace premises, as long as everyone can safely physically distance. Your employees do not need to wear a face covering, but we encourage everyone to wear one. If you have visitors to your workplace, you need to make sure they keep a 2 metre distance from others — for example, reception staff. Advice for businesses that only have workers on site | business.govt.nz (external link) Your employees must wear a face covering if they work: in a public-facing area of a court, tribunal, local or central government agency or social service provider as a delivery driver to residential addresses — delivery drivers only need to wear a face covering when they are out of their vehicle in a customer-facing role in a hospitality business, for example cafes or restaurants for a close contact service — for example, hairdressers or beauty therapists in a customer facing role at a retail store — including those that were operating at Alert Levels 3 and 4 in a public facing area at an indoor public venue — for example, a library or museum — employees working at a swimming pool do not need to wear a face covering as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — this excludes school buses. in the passenger areas of the ferry that runs between the North and South Island. in a veterinary clinic. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering Customers also need to wear a face covering when visiting certain businesses. If customers refuse to wear a face covering, you do not have to make them wear one, especially if there is a risk to your worker's safety. Keeping your workers safe when asking customers to wear face coverings | business.govt.nz (external link) Many businesses and services are now required to provide safe and secure ways for everyone 12 years and over who enters their premises or location to record their visits. Businesses must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to offer customers and visitors an alternative way to record their visit. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: the entry and exit times for workers, visitors and contractors the names of everyone on your premises or location their contact details. Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Find out more about mandatory record keeping Get your QR code poster For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: hairdressers home help providers. These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place including: providing ways for customers to record their visit keeping customers 2 metres apart, including while they are waiting good hygiene practices disinfecting surfaces in between customers making sure workers wear a face covering. At Alert Level 2, your employees can go into someone's home to work — for example, tradespeople, home cleaners, nannies and in-home care providers. They must stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If your employees go into someone's home to work, they should keep records of their visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time they arrive and leave a customer's home their customer's contact details. Your employees should not go into someone's home if they are unwell, or if the clients they are visiting are unwell. Advice for businesses that n ormally enter customers’ homes, vehicles or workplaces | business.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, your employees can travel locally using both public and private transport to get to their workplace. At Alert Level 2, your employees can travel for work to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2. Employees should keep a record of who they have been in contact with, and what transport services they used. If workers are using a company vehicle or travelling together in a work vehicle, try to limit the number of people travelling so people can safely distance. If physical distancing is difficult, we recommend employees wear a face covering. Make sure you clean and sanitise vehicles after use. Business or work travel in and out of Auckland is strictly limited. The Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading. If your workers need to cross the Alert Level boundary, only allow those who need to travel to do so. You should put in place extra measures to keep your workers safe — including rotating shifts to minimise the number of people they come in contact with. Business travel over an Alert Level boundary If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, all businesses can operate and have customers on their premises if they can do so safely. All workers should keep at least 1 metre apart, where possible. To help everyone physically distance safely, you can: limit the number of people allowed in enclosed spaces such as lifts offer flexible working options, for example working from home have virtual meetings instead of meeting in person If you own or run a business where staff cannot work home, you may want to stagger start times to limit cross over between staff. If your business has customers on site, you need to meet physical distancing requirements. This may mean you need to limit the number of people that can enter your premises at any given time so people can safely physically distance. You can also limit customer contact by offering contactless payment options and providing contactless deliveries. In places like retail stores, shopping malls, libraries, gyms, museums, swimming pools, and parts of offices where customers may be present, customers and clients on the premises need to stay 2 metres apart. At hospitality venues — for example, cafes, restaurants and bars, and event facilities —for example, cinemas, theatres or stadiums customers on the premises only need to keep 1 metre apart. There are specific rules for businesses in hospitality, retail and in-home services and businesses organising events or gatherings. Eating out at Alert Level 2 Retail and in-home services at Alert Level 2 Events and gatherings at Alert Level 2 Advice for businesses that normally have customers on site | business.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is not open to the public — for example, an office or a factory floor, workers only need to keep 1 metre apart. There is no limit on the number of people that can be on the workplace premises, as long as everyone can safely physically distance. Your employees do not need to wear a face covering, but we encourage everyone to wear one. If you have visitors to your workplace, you need to make sure they keep a 2 metre distance from others — for example, reception staff. Advice for businesses that only have workers on site | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Your employees must wear a face covering if they work: in a public-facing area of a court, tribunal, local or central government agency or social service provider as a delivery driver to residential addresses — delivery drivers only need to wear a face covering when they are out of their vehicle in a customer-facing role in a hospitality business, for example cafes or restaurants for a close contact service — for example, hairdressers or beauty therapists in a customer facing role at a retail store — including those that were operating at Alert Levels 3 and 4 in a public facing area at an indoor public venue — for example, a library or museum — employees working at a swimming pool do not need to wear a face covering as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — this excludes school buses. in the passenger areas of the ferry that runs between the North and South Island. in a veterinary clinic. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering Customers also need to wear a face covering when visiting certain businesses. If customers refuse to wear a face covering, you do not have to make them wear one, especially if there is a risk to your worker's safety. Keeping your workers safe when asking customers to wear face coverings | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Many businesses and services are now required to provide safe and secure ways for everyone 12 years and over who enters their premises or location to record their visits. Businesses must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to offer customers and visitors an alternative way to record their visit. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: the entry and exit times for workers, visitors and contractors the names of everyone on your premises or location their contact details. Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Find out more about mandatory record keeping Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: hairdressers home help providers. These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place including: providing ways for customers to record their visit keeping customers 2 metres apart, including while they are waiting good hygiene practices disinfecting surfaces in between customers making sure workers wear a face covering. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, your employees can go into someone's home to work — for example, tradespeople, home cleaners, nannies and in-home care providers. They must stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If your employees go into someone's home to work, they should keep records of their visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time they arrive and leave a customer's home their customer's contact details. Your employees should not go into someone's home if they are unwell, or if the clients they are visiting are unwell. Advice for businesses that n ormally enter customers’ homes, vehicles or workplaces | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, your employees can travel locally using both public and private transport to get to their workplace. At Alert Level 2, your employees can travel for work to other regions that are at Alert Level 1 or 2. Employees should keep a record of who they have been in contact with, and what transport services they used. If workers are using a company vehicle or travelling together in a work vehicle, try to limit the number of people travelling so people can safely distance. If physical distancing is difficult, we recommend employees wear a face covering. Make sure you clean and sanitise vehicles after use. Business or work travel in and out of Auckland is strictly limited. The Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading. If your workers need to cross the Alert Level boundary, only allow those who need to travel to do so. You should put in place extra measures to keep your workers safe — including rotating shifts to minimise the number of people they come in contact with. Business travel over an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Doing business at Alert Level 4 Record keeping and contact tracing Get your QR code poster Vaccine information for businesses Mandatory vaccinations for workers
Home Business and money Businesses Doing business at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- The Government has announced a 3 step plan for easing Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland. Some businesses will be able to open at step 2. Find out more about doing business safely in Auckland At Alert Level 3, everyone should work from home if they can. If your business involves close physical contact, it cannot open. All other businesses can operate, but with restrictions. This includes: meeting physical distancing requirements having extra hygiene measures regularly cleaning and disinfecting shared surfaces having contactless options for ordering, pick-up, delivery and payment making sure staff, customers and visitors wear a face covering if they are required to. If your business does not have measures in place to operate safely, then you should close. Guidance for specific businesses at different Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) Information for businesses and services in primary industries | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Your business legally must be contactless. Yo ur customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a: supermarket dairy food bank liquor store in a Licensing Trust area butcher  — your shop must be indoors and have a fixed location fishmonger — your shop must be indoors and have a fixed location greengrocer — your shop must be indoors and have a fixed location petrol station self-service laundry pharmacy health service accomodation service court or tribunal social and community-based service to maintain critical wellbeing or crisis support rental car service veterinary and animal care service shopping malls — only to access stores which are open to customers, or to pick up a contactless order public transport or passenger service New Zealand Post — for PO Box and collection services only bank or financial institution —  in person customer transactions can only happen if online or phone banking options are not possible hardware or DIY store— these can open to trade customers only venue that holds organised funerals, tangihanga, weddings and civil unions Customers cannot eat or drink on your premises. At Alert Level 3, work such as building and construction can resume. If you are a retail business operating in the Alert Level 3 area, you can sell and deliver both essential and non-essential goods to customers in the Alert Level 4 area. If you own or run a business where staff cannot work from home, make sure: employees keep 1 metre apart. customers stay 2 metres apart, including when waiting in line to pick up a contactless order. If your business is allowed customers on site and physical distancing is difficult, you may need to implement a "one-in, one out" policy. you offer flexible working options — for example staggered meal breaks, or staggered start and finish times to reduce the number of people your employees have contact with at work. your employees stay home if they are sick, have cold or flu symptoms, or if they have been asked to get a COVID-19 test. You can apply for financial support so you can keep paying your employees who need to isolate. Financial support if an employee needs to self-isolate . you provide hygiene and cleaning products so workers can clean and disinfect shared surfaces, and wash and dry their hands. you display your QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system for people who cannot access a smartphone. Your employees must wear a face covering if they work: in a public-facing role at a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, licensing trust, pharmacy, food bank, self-service laundry, hardware store, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, shopping mall, bank or New Zealand Post in the public-facing area of a court, tribunal, local or central government agency or social service provider as a delivery driver to residential addresses — delivery drivers only need to wear a face covering when they are out of their vehicle as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — this excludes school buses in the passenger areas of the ferry that runs between the North and South Island at a veterinary clinic in someone's home — for example as a tradesperson or locksmith. Some people are exempt from wearing a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering At Alert Level 3, it is important we have strong contact tracing abilities. Many Alert Level 3 businesses are now legally required to provide safe and secure ways for everyone 12 years and over who enters their premises or location to record their visits. Businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to offer visitors an alternative way to record their visit. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: the entry and exit times for workers, visitors and contractors the names of everyone on your premises or location their contact details. Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Find out more about mandatory record keeping Get your QR code poster Farmers markets Nightclubs Entertainment and tourist facilities where people gather — for example museums, cinemas, libraries, arcades. Hairdressers and beauty salons Gyms and exercise facilities Driving instructors Outdoor adventure activity operators At Alert Level 3, only certain in-home services can operate. Your employees can go into someone's home to work if they are a tradesperson — for example a plumber, electrician, locksmith, if they are a gardener or landscaper, or for pest control. They must wear a face covering when going into someone's home. They should stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. They also need to keep records of their visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time they arrive and leave a customer's home their customer's contact details. Your employees should not go into someone's home if they are unwell, or if the clients they are visiting are unwell. Home cleaners can only work to provide support to vulnerable people — for example, disabled people or people with health conditions. At Alert Level 3, in-home carers can continue to provide support. Employers of in-home carers must have appropriate guidelines and systems in place to keep their staff safe in the workplace. This includes following the public health guidelines and notifying a carer if the person they are visiting is sick. Anyone who enters a home to provide care should: stay home if they are sick and get tested if they have any COVID-19 symptoms practise good hygiene at all times maintain physical distancing where possible use personal protective equipment (PPE) as appropriate keep a record of their visit for contact tracing purposes get vaccinated if they have not already. At Alert Level 3, your employees can travel locally using both public and private transport to get to their workplace premises in an Alert Level 3 area. Think about what tasks can be done from home — for example, having a virtual meeting rather than meeting in-person, or doing the administration work from home. If your workers do need to go onto the workplace premises, only allow those who need to go into work to do so. Everyone else should work from home. Public transport services will have limited capacity at Alert Level 3 so everyone can distance safely. This means public transport services cannot carry standing passengers. Public transport at Alert Level 3 Permitted movement within an Alert Level 3 area Business or work travel in and out of Auckland is strictly limited. The Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading. If your workers need to cross the Alert Level boundary, only allow those who need to travel to do so. You should put in place extra measures to keep your workers safe — including rotating shifts to minimise the number of people they come in contact with. Business travel over an Alert Level boundary If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- The Government has announced a 3 step plan for easing Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland. Some businesses will be able to open at step 2. Find out more about doing business safely in Auckland --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, everyone should work from home if they can. If your business involves close physical contact, it cannot open. All other businesses can operate, but with restrictions. This includes: meeting physical distancing requirements having extra hygiene measures regularly cleaning and disinfecting shared surfaces having contactless options for ordering, pick-up, delivery and payment making sure staff, customers and visitors wear a face covering if they are required to. If your business does not have measures in place to operate safely, then you should close. Guidance for specific businesses at different Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) Information for businesses and services in primary industries | mpi.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Your business legally must be contactless. Yo ur customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a: supermarket dairy food bank liquor store in a Licensing Trust area butcher  — your shop must be indoors and have a fixed location fishmonger — your shop must be indoors and have a fixed location greengrocer — your shop must be indoors and have a fixed location petrol station self-service laundry pharmacy health service accomodation service court or tribunal social and community-based service to maintain critical wellbeing or crisis support rental car service veterinary and animal care service shopping malls — only to access stores which are open to customers, or to pick up a contactless order public transport or passenger service New Zealand Post — for PO Box and collection services only bank or financial institution —  in person customer transactions can only happen if online or phone banking options are not possible hardware or DIY store— these can open to trade customers only venue that holds organised funerals, tangihanga, weddings and civil unions Customers cannot eat or drink on your premises. At Alert Level 3, work such as building and construction can resume. If you are a retail business operating in the Alert Level 3 area, you can sell and deliver both essential and non-essential goods to customers in the Alert Level 4 area. If you own or run a business where staff cannot work from home, make sure: employees keep 1 metre apart. customers stay 2 metres apart, including when waiting in line to pick up a contactless order. If your business is allowed customers on site and physical distancing is difficult, you may need to implement a "one-in, one out" policy. you offer flexible working options — for example staggered meal breaks, or staggered start and finish times to reduce the number of people your employees have contact with at work. your employees stay home if they are sick, have cold or flu symptoms, or if they have been asked to get a COVID-19 test. You can apply for financial support so you can keep paying your employees who need to isolate. Financial support if an employee needs to self-isolate . you provide hygiene and cleaning products so workers can clean and disinfect shared surfaces, and wash and dry their hands. you display your QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system for people who cannot access a smartphone. Your employees must wear a face covering if they work: in a public-facing role at a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, licensing trust, pharmacy, food bank, self-service laundry, hardware store, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, shopping mall, bank or New Zealand Post in the public-facing area of a court, tribunal, local or central government agency or social service provider as a delivery driver to residential addresses — delivery drivers only need to wear a face covering when they are out of their vehicle as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — this excludes school buses in the passenger areas of the ferry that runs between the North and South Island at a veterinary clinic in someone's home — for example as a tradesperson or locksmith. Some people are exempt from wearing a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, it is important we have strong contact tracing abilities. Many Alert Level 3 businesses are now legally required to provide safe and secure ways for everyone 12 years and over who enters their premises or location to record their visits. Businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to offer visitors an alternative way to record their visit. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: the entry and exit times for workers, visitors and contractors the names of everyone on your premises or location their contact details. Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Find out more about mandatory record keeping Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- Farmers markets Nightclubs Entertainment and tourist facilities where people gather — for example museums, cinemas, libraries, arcades. Hairdressers and beauty salons Gyms and exercise facilities Driving instructors Outdoor adventure activity operators --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, only certain in-home services can operate. Your employees can go into someone's home to work if they are a tradesperson — for example a plumber, electrician, locksmith, if they are a gardener or landscaper, or for pest control. They must wear a face covering when going into someone's home. They should stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. They also need to keep records of their visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time they arrive and leave a customer's home their customer's contact details. Your employees should not go into someone's home if they are unwell, or if the clients they are visiting are unwell. Home cleaners can only work to provide support to vulnerable people — for example, disabled people or people with health conditions. At Alert Level 3, in-home carers can continue to provide support. Employers of in-home carers must have appropriate guidelines and systems in place to keep their staff safe in the workplace. This includes following the public health guidelines and notifying a carer if the person they are visiting is sick. Anyone who enters a home to provide care should: stay home if they are sick and get tested if they have any COVID-19 symptoms practise good hygiene at all times maintain physical distancing where possible use personal protective equipment (PPE) as appropriate keep a record of their visit for contact tracing purposes get vaccinated if they have not already. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, your employees can travel locally using both public and private transport to get to their workplace premises in an Alert Level 3 area. Think about what tasks can be done from home — for example, having a virtual meeting rather than meeting in-person, or doing the administration work from home. If your workers do need to go onto the workplace premises, only allow those who need to go into work to do so. Everyone else should work from home. Public transport services will have limited capacity at Alert Level 3 so everyone can distance safely. This means public transport services cannot carry standing passengers. Public transport at Alert Level 3 Permitted movement within an Alert Level 3 area Business or work travel in and out of Auckland is strictly limited. The Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading. If your workers need to cross the Alert Level boundary, only allow those who need to travel to do so. You should put in place extra measures to keep your workers safe — including rotating shifts to minimise the number of people they come in contact with. Business travel over an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Doing business in Auckland Doing business in Auckland Doing business at Alert Level 4 Record keeping and contact tracing Get your QR code poster Vaccine information for businesses Mandatory vaccinations for workers
Home Business and money Businesses Doing business at Alert Level 3 Doing business in Auckland --- Section Separator --- In Tāmaki Makaurau / Auckland, restrictions under Alert Level 3 are being eased in 3 steps. This means that more businesses can open up, and more people can return to their workplace. At Step 1, if your workers can work from home, they should continue to do so. You are now permitted to have outdoor gatherings with 1 other household, up to a maximum of 10 people. If you are operating at Alert Level 3, you can have outdoor business meetings with 1 other household — as long as you stay 2 metres apart. More businesses can open from Step 2. Find out more about the steps here Doing business at Alert Level 3 In Step 1, s upermarkets, dairies, butchers, fishmongers, greengrocers, petrol stations and pharmacies can continue to have customers on their premises. All other retail businesses must continue to be contactless. In Step 2, if you are a retail business, you will be able to open your store to customers. Your workers must wear a face covering. Customers who enter your premises must also wear a face covering when shopping in store. Make sure you have ways for customers to shop safely. This includes: limiting customer numbers so everyone can safely stay 2 metres apart asking customers to stay home if they are unwell reminding customers to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app every time they enter your store offering contactless options for payment, pick up and delivery providing hand sanitiser for people to use, and regularly cleaning and disinfecting shared surfaces. In Step 1, all public facilities such as museums and libraries must remain closed. In Step 2, public facilities can open to customers. There are no restrictions on the number of customers that can be inside — as long as everyone can safely stay 2 metres apart. Gyms and indoor recreation facilities must remain closed. Workers and customers must wear a face covering when inside. Help your customers stay safe by asking them to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, providing hand sanitiser inside your venue, offering online services, and regularly cleaning and sanitising shared areas. In Steps 1 and 2, hospitality venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and takeaway stores must remain contactless  — you can offer contactless pick-up, delivery or drive through options, but your customers cannot go in to dine. In Step 3, hospitality venues can open to customers. You can have a maximum of 50 people in any indoor or outdoor defined space. Defined spaces (external link) Restaurants, cafes and bars can have people seated in both indoor and outdoor spaces, but they need to make sure the two groups do not mix. This means making sure there are separate entrances for shared areas —  for example bathrooms or counters where people go up to order or pay. Nightclubs must remain closed. Your customers must be seated to be served. Workers who interact with customers must wear a face covering. Keep tables 1 metre apart to allow everyone to distance safely. If your venue is small, you may need to limit numbers to meet physical distancing requirements. Customers should keep to their household bubbles when eating out. Encourage everyone to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app to make it easier for contact tracing. In Steps 1 and 2, event and entertainment venues such as cinemas, theatres or casinos must remain closed. In Step 3, event and entertainment venues can open to customers. If you are an event venue, you can have a maximum of 50 customers in any indoor or outdoor defined space. Defined spaces If your venue has both indoor and outdoor defined spaces, you may be able to have multiple groups of 50 people attending as long as the groups do not mix. Everyone attending an event venue needs to stay 2 metres apart. This means, you may need to alternate seating to meet your physical distancing requirements. Workers and attendees must wear a face covering. Performers do not need to wear a face covering when on stage, but we encourage them to wear one backstage. Attendees can take their face covering off to eat and drink. Keep your workers and your customers safe by: asking everyone to stay home if they are unwell regularly cleaning shared high touch surfaces – for example, door handles, handrails, counters, shared facilities, and seating areas asking attendees to buy their tickets online, before they come to the event to avoid queueing at the venue using signs and posters to direct traffic flow in congested areas such as bathrooms, theatre entrances, and lifts reminding attendees to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. In Steps 1 and 2, hairdressers, barbers and businesses offering close contact personal care services such as massage or beauty treatments must remain closed. In Step 3, close contact businesses can open to customers. There are no restrictions on the number of customers that can be inside — as long as everyone can safely stay 2 metres apart. Workers do not need to keep 2 metres apart when providing the service to their client, but you need to have ways for customers to keep 2 metres apart. For example, you may want to seat clients at every other station, and have designated waiting areas. Workers must wear a face covering. Customers are encouraged to wear a face covering and can remove it when they are getting the treatment or service. Keep your workers and your clients safe by: Booking extra time between clients so you can clean and sanitise shared equipment and areas. Asking clients and workers who are unwell to stay home, and reschedule their appointment. Having hand sanitiser available for workers and clients to use. Encouraging clients to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. You may want to provide your workers with additional personal protective equipment (PPE) — for example gloves or face shields. If your business is not currently operating at Alert Level 3, and is not covered under the 3 step plan for reopening, you will not be able to operate. If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. The August 2021 Wage Subsidy will continue to be available to all businesses while Auckland is in Steps 1, 2 and 3. Financial support for businesses As we move through each of these steps, we still need to keep up the hard mahi. You can help keep your business open for longer by encouraging all of your staff to get vaccinated if they have not already done so. Vaccination is the best tool we have for protecting ourselves, our whānau and our community. --- Section Separator --- In Tāmaki Makaurau / Auckland, restrictions under Alert Level 3 are being eased in 3 steps. This means that more businesses can open up, and more people can return to their workplace. At Step 1, if your workers can work from home, they should continue to do so. You are now permitted to have outdoor gatherings with 1 other household, up to a maximum of 10 people. If you are operating at Alert Level 3, you can have outdoor business meetings with 1 other household — as long as you stay 2 metres apart. More businesses can open from Step 2. Find out more about the steps here Doing business at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- In Step 1, s upermarkets, dairies, butchers, fishmongers, greengrocers, petrol stations and pharmacies can continue to have customers on their premises. All other retail businesses must continue to be contactless. In Step 2, if you are a retail business, you will be able to open your store to customers. Your workers must wear a face covering. Customers who enter your premises must also wear a face covering when shopping in store. Make sure you have ways for customers to shop safely. This includes: limiting customer numbers so everyone can safely stay 2 metres apart asking customers to stay home if they are unwell reminding customers to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app every time they enter your store offering contactless options for payment, pick up and delivery providing hand sanitiser for people to use, and regularly cleaning and disinfecting shared surfaces. --- Section Separator --- In Step 1, all public facilities such as museums and libraries must remain closed. In Step 2, public facilities can open to customers. There are no restrictions on the number of customers that can be inside — as long as everyone can safely stay 2 metres apart. Gyms and indoor recreation facilities must remain closed. Workers and customers must wear a face covering when inside. Help your customers stay safe by asking them to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, providing hand sanitiser inside your venue, offering online services, and regularly cleaning and sanitising shared areas. --- Section Separator --- In Steps 1 and 2, hospitality venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and takeaway stores must remain contactless  — you can offer contactless pick-up, delivery or drive through options, but your customers cannot go in to dine. In Step 3, hospitality venues can open to customers. You can have a maximum of 50 people in any indoor or outdoor defined space. Defined spaces (external link) Restaurants, cafes and bars can have people seated in both indoor and outdoor spaces, but they need to make sure the two groups do not mix. This means making sure there are separate entrances for shared areas —  for example bathrooms or counters where people go up to order or pay. Nightclubs must remain closed. Your customers must be seated to be served. Workers who interact with customers must wear a face covering. Keep tables 1 metre apart to allow everyone to distance safely. If your venue is small, you may need to limit numbers to meet physical distancing requirements. Customers should keep to their household bubbles when eating out. Encourage everyone to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app to make it easier for contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- In Steps 1 and 2, event and entertainment venues such as cinemas, theatres or casinos must remain closed. In Step 3, event and entertainment venues can open to customers. If you are an event venue, you can have a maximum of 50 customers in any indoor or outdoor defined space. Defined spaces If your venue has both indoor and outdoor defined spaces, you may be able to have multiple groups of 50 people attending as long as the groups do not mix. Everyone attending an event venue needs to stay 2 metres apart. This means, you may need to alternate seating to meet your physical distancing requirements. Workers and attendees must wear a face covering. Performers do not need to wear a face covering when on stage, but we encourage them to wear one backstage. Attendees can take their face covering off to eat and drink. Keep your workers and your customers safe by: asking everyone to stay home if they are unwell regularly cleaning shared high touch surfaces – for example, door handles, handrails, counters, shared facilities, and seating areas asking attendees to buy their tickets online, before they come to the event to avoid queueing at the venue using signs and posters to direct traffic flow in congested areas such as bathrooms, theatre entrances, and lifts reminding attendees to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- In Steps 1 and 2, hairdressers, barbers and businesses offering close contact personal care services such as massage or beauty treatments must remain closed. In Step 3, close contact businesses can open to customers. There are no restrictions on the number of customers that can be inside — as long as everyone can safely stay 2 metres apart. Workers do not need to keep 2 metres apart when providing the service to their client, but you need to have ways for customers to keep 2 metres apart. For example, you may want to seat clients at every other station, and have designated waiting areas. Workers must wear a face covering. Customers are encouraged to wear a face covering and can remove it when they are getting the treatment or service. Keep your workers and your clients safe by: Booking extra time between clients so you can clean and sanitise shared equipment and areas. Asking clients and workers who are unwell to stay home, and reschedule their appointment. Having hand sanitiser available for workers and clients to use. Encouraging clients to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. You may want to provide your workers with additional personal protective equipment (PPE) — for example gloves or face shields. --- Section Separator --- If your business is not currently operating at Alert Level 3, and is not covered under the 3 step plan for reopening, you will not be able to operate. If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. The August 2021 Wage Subsidy will continue to be available to all businesses while Auckland is in Steps 1, 2 and 3. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- As we move through each of these steps, we still need to keep up the hard mahi. You can help keep your business open for longer by encouraging all of your staff to get vaccinated if they have not already done so. Vaccination is the best tool we have for protecting ourselves, our whānau and our community. --- Section Separator --- Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Doing business in Auckland Doing business in Auckland Doing business at Alert Level 4 Record keeping and contact tracing Get your QR code poster Vaccine information for businesses Mandatory vaccinations for workers
Home Business and money Businesses Doing business at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, we all need to stay in our household bubbles. If you or your employees can work from home, they can continue to work at Alert Level 4. If your business provides an Alert Level 4 business or service, then your employees can go into work if they cannot work from home. You cannot apply to provide an Alert Level 4 service — instead it is up to the business to check whether they meet the definition of an Alert Level 4 business or service. You do not need an exemption or permission to operate or for your employees to go to work. Working safely at Alert Level 4 Pay and leave entitlements for employees during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 4, only certain businesses can open to the public and have customers on their premises. You can open to customers if you are a: supermarket, dairy or food bank pharmacy liquor store (only Licensing Trust stores in the 4 Licensing Trust Areas with a monopoly can sell alcohol) petrol station self-service laundry bank or a financial institution hardware store — for trade customers only health service accommodation service court or tribunal social and community-based service to maintain critical wellbeing or crisis support emergency service Parliamentary services passenger services, including public transport by road, rail, air or sea school hostel. All other businesses must not have customers on their premises. Operating at different Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) Information for businesses and services in primary industries | mpi.govt.nz (external link) If you are an Alert Level 4 business or service and you are permitted to have customers on your premises, you can open for click and collect services. If you are a hardware store, click and collect is only available for trade customers. Make sure your staff limit their interactions with customers as much possible by having contactless methods for pick up and payment. If you have an enquiry about the Alert Level 4 rules or if you are unsure if you can operate, you can: call 0800 424 946, or email AL4BusinessServices@mbie.govt.nz for advice. The following businesses and services can operate at Alert Level 4. The businesses are organised by sector. Not all of these businesses can have customers on the premises, and there are restrictions on how they can operate. You do not need to apply to operate with MBIE or MPI during Alert Level 4. It is up to you to check if you business meets the criteria of an Alert Level 4 business or service. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has published a list of essential non-food consumer products that can be provided at Alert Level 4. Businesses and shoppers are expected to act responsibly. Any provision of essential non-food consumer products should be by online order with contactless delivery only. Essential non-food consumer products | business.govt.nz (external link) If your employees need to work on site, you should: limit the number of people on site so everyone can safely stay 2 metres apart offer flexible working arrangements, for example, staggered meal breaks, or staggered start and finish times to help with physical distancing clean and disinfect your workplace regularly provide employees with handwashing facilities have personal protective equipment (PPE) available for employees to use encourage workers to wear a face covering if physical distancing is difficult display your QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system for workers and customers to use. If your employees interact with customers or members of the public, they legally must wear a face covering while at work. Face coverings at Alert Level 4 If your workplace is allowed customers on premises make sure you encourage everyone to: scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer App or fill out a contact tracing register sanitise their hands on entry physically distance by installing barriers, closing every alternate checkout or having a "one-in, one out" policy use contactless payment options If your business cannot meet all Alert Level 4 rules to operate safely, your workers should not go into work. Working safely at Alert Level 4 At Alert Level 4, it is important we have strong contact tracing ability. Businesses that are open at Alert Level 4 legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to offer visitors a way to manually sign in. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: the entry and exit times for workers, visitors and contractors the names of everyone on your premises or location their contact details. Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Record keeping and contact tracing At Alert Level 4, your employees can go into someone's home to work if they are a tradesperson — for example a plumber, electrician or locksmith. They can only do urgent repair or maintenance work — if it is critical to safety, or to maintain the necessities of life. If your employees do go into someone's home to work, they must: wear a face covering keep records of their visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording the date and time they arrive and leave a customer's home and their customer's contact details keep 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. Your employees should not go into someone's home if they are unwell, or if the clients they are visiting are unwell. If your employees need to go into the premises or work on site, they can travel to work by any method, like their car or public transport. Employees may be asked to show who they work for so they can prove they have a reason to travel. We recommend you provide your employees with a letter to confirm: their name that they are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service the address of your workplace. Public transport services may have limited capacity during Alert Level 4. You will not be permitted to stand on public transport so everyone can safely distance. If your employees need to use public transport to get to work, we encourage you to offer flexible working options. Business or work travel across Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 2 boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 2 boundary if that travel is permitted. You also need to make sure your workers have acceptable evidence that they are permitted to cross the boundary. Business travel over an Alert Level 4 and 2 boundary Your employees can travel to your workplace to collect any materials or equipment they need to help them work from home. When going into your workplace, your employees should: plan what they need so they limit their time on the premises safely physically distance from other people who may be in the workplace wear a face covering if possible scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app Your employees should not go into the workplace if they are unwell, have been asked to isolate or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. (external link) (external link) If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your children. The carer cannot join another household bubble. The carer does not need to wear a face covering when looking after your children. If your employee or someone they live with has been at a location of interest, everyone in the household must follow all public health advice. This may mean self-isolating in their bubble at home. Your employee should not: come into work leave home for exercise go grocery shopping. This is essential to prevent spreading the virus further. If your employee is required to self-isolate, you can support them by: delivering groceries or medications to their home in a contactless way checking in on their mental health and wellbeing Encourage your employees to keep checking the locations of interest as they are updated regularly. If your employee or someone they live with has been at a location of interest, they should let you know straight away so they can go home and isolate. What to do if you have been at a location of interest (external link) If an employee finds out they have tested positive for COVID-19 while they are at work, they must tell you immediately. You may be directed by a medical officer of health to comply with certain public health measures to limit the spread of COVID-19, and protect your employees, their whānau and your community. The Ministry of Health has guidance on what you need to do if an employee, customer or visitor is a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. Guidance for workplaces that have a case of COVID-19 (external link) If an employee develops symptoms of COVID-19 at work, send them home and ask them to call Healthline or their GP for advice on getting a test. If your business is identified as a location of interest, you will be contacted by a public health official. The public health official will talk you through what this means for you. The Ministry of Health has guidance on what to tell your staff and customers if you're identified as a location of interest and how to identify any contacts who may have been exposed to COVID-19. If your business is a location of interest | Ministry of Health (external link) If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, we all need to stay in our household bubbles. If you or your employees can work from home, they can continue to work at Alert Level 4. If your business provides an Alert Level 4 business or service, then your employees can go into work if they cannot work from home. You cannot apply to provide an Alert Level 4 service — instead it is up to the business to check whether they meet the definition of an Alert Level 4 business or service. You do not need an exemption or permission to operate or for your employees to go to work. Working safely at Alert Level 4 Pay and leave entitlements for employees during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, only certain businesses can open to the public and have customers on their premises. You can open to customers if you are a: supermarket, dairy or food bank pharmacy liquor store (only Licensing Trust stores in the 4 Licensing Trust Areas with a monopoly can sell alcohol) petrol station self-service laundry bank or a financial institution hardware store — for trade customers only health service accommodation service court or tribunal social and community-based service to maintain critical wellbeing or crisis support emergency service Parliamentary services passenger services, including public transport by road, rail, air or sea school hostel. All other businesses must not have customers on their premises. Operating at different Alert Levels | business.govt.nz (external link) Information for businesses and services in primary industries | mpi.govt.nz (external link) If you are an Alert Level 4 business or service and you are permitted to have customers on your premises, you can open for click and collect services. If you are a hardware store, click and collect is only available for trade customers. Make sure your staff limit their interactions with customers as much possible by having contactless methods for pick up and payment. If you have an enquiry about the Alert Level 4 rules or if you are unsure if you can operate, you can: call 0800 424 946, or email AL4BusinessServices@mbie.govt.nz for advice. --- Section Separator --- The following businesses and services can operate at Alert Level 4. The businesses are organised by sector. Not all of these businesses can have customers on the premises, and there are restrictions on how they can operate. You do not need to apply to operate with MBIE or MPI during Alert Level 4. It is up to you to check if you business meets the criteria of an Alert Level 4 business or service. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has published a list of essential non-food consumer products that can be provided at Alert Level 4. Businesses and shoppers are expected to act responsibly. Any provision of essential non-food consumer products should be by online order with contactless delivery only. Essential non-food consumer products | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your employees need to work on site, you should: limit the number of people on site so everyone can safely stay 2 metres apart offer flexible working arrangements, for example, staggered meal breaks, or staggered start and finish times to help with physical distancing clean and disinfect your workplace regularly provide employees with handwashing facilities have personal protective equipment (PPE) available for employees to use encourage workers to wear a face covering if physical distancing is difficult display your QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system for workers and customers to use. If your employees interact with customers or members of the public, they legally must wear a face covering while at work. Face coverings at Alert Level 4 If your workplace is allowed customers on premises make sure you encourage everyone to: scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer App or fill out a contact tracing register sanitise their hands on entry physically distance by installing barriers, closing every alternate checkout or having a "one-in, one out" policy use contactless payment options If your business cannot meet all Alert Level 4 rules to operate safely, your workers should not go into work. Working safely at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, it is important we have strong contact tracing ability. Businesses that are open at Alert Level 4 legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code in a prominent place at or near your main entrance. You also need to offer visitors a way to manually sign in. If you are using an alternative contact tracing system, you need to record: the entry and exit times for workers, visitors and contractors the names of everyone on your premises or location their contact details. Make sure you keep your contact tracing records secure. Record keeping and contact tracing --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, your employees can go into someone's home to work if they are a tradesperson — for example a plumber, electrician or locksmith. They can only do urgent repair or maintenance work — if it is critical to safety, or to maintain the necessities of life. If your employees do go into someone's home to work, they must: wear a face covering keep records of their visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording the date and time they arrive and leave a customer's home and their customer's contact details keep 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. Your employees should not go into someone's home if they are unwell, or if the clients they are visiting are unwell. --- Section Separator --- If your employees need to go into the premises or work on site, they can travel to work by any method, like their car or public transport. Employees may be asked to show who they work for so they can prove they have a reason to travel. We recommend you provide your employees with a letter to confirm: their name that they are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service the address of your workplace. Public transport services may have limited capacity during Alert Level 4. You will not be permitted to stand on public transport so everyone can safely distance. If your employees need to use public transport to get to work, we encourage you to offer flexible working options. Business or work travel across Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 2 boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 2 boundary if that travel is permitted. You also need to make sure your workers have acceptable evidence that they are permitted to cross the boundary. Business travel over an Alert Level 4 and 2 boundary Your employees can travel to your workplace to collect any materials or equipment they need to help them work from home. When going into your workplace, your employees should: plan what they need so they limit their time on the premises safely physically distance from other people who may be in the workplace wear a face covering if possible scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app Your employees should not go into the workplace if they are unwell, have been asked to isolate or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are working for an Alert Level 4 business or service and you have no available options for childcare, you can extend your household bubble to include a carer for your children. The carer can leave their home to provide childcare for your children. The carer cannot join another household bubble. The carer does not need to wear a face covering when looking after your children. --- Section Separator --- If your employee or someone they live with has been at a location of interest, everyone in the household must follow all public health advice. This may mean self-isolating in their bubble at home. Your employee should not: come into work leave home for exercise go grocery shopping. This is essential to prevent spreading the virus further. If your employee is required to self-isolate, you can support them by: delivering groceries or medications to their home in a contactless way checking in on their mental health and wellbeing Encourage your employees to keep checking the locations of interest as they are updated regularly. If your employee or someone they live with has been at a location of interest, they should let you know straight away so they can go home and isolate. What to do if you have been at a location of interest (external link) --- Section Separator --- If an employee finds out they have tested positive for COVID-19 while they are at work, they must tell you immediately. You may be directed by a medical officer of health to comply with certain public health measures to limit the spread of COVID-19, and protect your employees, their whānau and your community. The Ministry of Health has guidance on what you need to do if an employee, customer or visitor is a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. Guidance for workplaces that have a case of COVID-19 (external link) If an employee develops symptoms of COVID-19 at work, send them home and ask them to call Healthline or their GP for advice on getting a test. If your business is identified as a location of interest, you will be contacted by a public health official. The public health official will talk you through what this means for you. The Ministry of Health has guidance on what to tell your staff and customers if you're identified as a location of interest and how to identify any contacts who may have been exposed to COVID-19. If your business is a location of interest | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your business needs financial support, there may be help for you. Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Doing business at Alert Level 4 Record keeping and contact tracing Get your QR code poster Vaccine information for businesses Mandatory vaccinations for workers
Home Business and money Businesses Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. You should only use the official NZ COVID-19 QR code poster issued by the Ministry of Health. This is so that visitors know that scanning the QR code links to NZ COVID Tracer app, and is for contact tracing purposes. Complete the online form to get your QR code posters. You'll need to fill in a separate form for each of your locations. The form will ask you for your NZ Business Number (NZBN) or Business Industry Classification Code: you do not need these if you're creating a QR code for personal reasons. You'll need: a valid New Zealand driver licence address details for each of your locations your email address an email address and contact phone number for each of your locations. Complete online form (external link) If you have a large number of locations or do not have a New Zealand driver licence, use the Ministry of Health bulk-upload template. If you prefer, you can complete the Ministry of Health template. Use this template if you do not have a New Zealand driver licence or you have a large number of locations. This is because you need a separate poster for each location. You'll need: the name of your business or organisation and its New Zealand Business Number (NZBN), if you have it address information for each of your locations email address for each location — for the person who will print the poster. Download and complete the template, and then email it to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Download Ministry of Health template (external link) You can reprint your QR code posters, update and manage the contact details registered to your poster and archive any posters you no longer need online. Manage and reprint your QR code poster (external link) We encourage you to check your contact details are up to date. This will help contact tracers to quickly notify you if someone who tests positive for COVID-19 has been to your premises, or if your business is identified as a location of interest. When someone tests positive for COVID-19, contact tracers need to know where they have been while they were infectious. If a person who tests positive for COVID-19 has visited your business, contact tracers need to get in touch with you and notify people who were there at the same time. The faster that this can happen, the faster that contacts can isolate and get tested, and the more likely it is that we can stop the spread of COVID-19. If they scanned in, everything can go faster. Contact tracers can use the contact details you included when you signed up for your QR code poster to get in touch with you quickly, and let you know what to do next. If the person who tested positive did not scan in, contact tracers use the location name on your poster to find the right place. Once they have found the right poster details, they use that information to get in touch with you, and quickly alert anyone who scanned in at the time the case was there. If it is hard to find the right poster details, this takes longer – and sometimes we cannot find them at all. If you have multiple posters at the same place, we might not alert the right one, so we might not notify everyone who scanned in. All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This  applies at all Alert Levels. A separate poster is needed for each unique location. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, are legally required to display QR codes to help passengers keep track of where they have been. This includes buses, trains, planes, ferries and ride-share vehicles. Public transport services must display additional copies of QR codes in prominent places — such as windows to make it easier and more accessible for passengers to scan in. Public transport services that have less than 5 seats, taxis and ride-share vehicles only need to display one QR code. Workplaces without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You legally must display a QR code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle. You must display your QR code poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You must have additional QR codes available to scan in other places around your business — for example, at counters where people go up to pay, at the reception desk or in areas where customers and visitors regularly walk past. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. Your poster also needs to be in good condition so it is easy to scan for your customers and visitors. We recommend you: print in A4, colour if possible place the poster about 130cm off the ground make it easy for people to reach consider those that may be less able to reach over or around objects. Do not: crop or alter the poster or code place the poster on sliding or revolving doors place in narrow, or hard-to-see areas place in an area with high glare place high up or in hard-to-reach areas. --- Section Separator --- There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. You should only use the official NZ COVID-19 QR code poster issued by the Ministry of Health. This is so that visitors know that scanning the QR code links to NZ COVID Tracer app, and is for contact tracing purposes. Complete the online form to get your QR code posters. You'll need to fill in a separate form for each of your locations. The form will ask you for your NZ Business Number (NZBN) or Business Industry Classification Code: you do not need these if you're creating a QR code for personal reasons. You'll need: a valid New Zealand driver licence address details for each of your locations your email address an email address and contact phone number for each of your locations. Complete online form (external link) If you have a large number of locations or do not have a New Zealand driver licence, use the Ministry of Health bulk-upload template. If you prefer, you can complete the Ministry of Health template. Use this template if you do not have a New Zealand driver licence or you have a large number of locations. This is because you need a separate poster for each location. You'll need: the name of your business or organisation and its New Zealand Business Number (NZBN), if you have it address information for each of your locations email address for each location — for the person who will print the poster. Download and complete the template, and then email it to help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Download Ministry of Health template (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can reprint your QR code posters, update and manage the contact details registered to your poster and archive any posters you no longer need online. Manage and reprint your QR code poster (external link) We encourage you to check your contact details are up to date. This will help contact tracers to quickly notify you if someone who tests positive for COVID-19 has been to your premises, or if your business is identified as a location of interest. --- Section Separator --- When someone tests positive for COVID-19, contact tracers need to know where they have been while they were infectious. If a person who tests positive for COVID-19 has visited your business, contact tracers need to get in touch with you and notify people who were there at the same time. The faster that this can happen, the faster that contacts can isolate and get tested, and the more likely it is that we can stop the spread of COVID-19. If they scanned in, everything can go faster. Contact tracers can use the contact details you included when you signed up for your QR code poster to get in touch with you quickly, and let you know what to do next. If the person who tested positive did not scan in, contact tracers use the location name on your poster to find the right place. Once they have found the right poster details, they use that information to get in touch with you, and quickly alert anyone who scanned in at the time the case was there. If it is hard to find the right poster details, this takes longer – and sometimes we cannot find them at all. If you have multiple posters at the same place, we might not alert the right one, so we might not notify everyone who scanned in. --- Section Separator --- All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. This  applies at all Alert Levels. A separate poster is needed for each unique location. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, are legally required to display QR codes to help passengers keep track of where they have been. This includes buses, trains, planes, ferries and ride-share vehicles. Public transport services must display additional copies of QR codes in prominent places — such as windows to make it easier and more accessible for passengers to scan in. Public transport services that have less than 5 seats, taxis and ride-share vehicles only need to display one QR code. Workplaces without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You legally must display a QR code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle. --- Section Separator --- You must display your QR code poster in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You must have additional QR codes available to scan in other places around your business — for example, at counters where people go up to pay, at the reception desk or in areas where customers and visitors regularly walk past. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. Your poster also needs to be in good condition so it is easy to scan for your customers and visitors. We recommend you: print in A4, colour if possible place the poster about 130cm off the ground make it easy for people to reach consider those that may be less able to reach over or around objects. Do not: crop or alter the poster or code place the poster on sliding or revolving doors place in narrow, or hard-to-see areas place in an area with high glare place high up or in hard-to-reach areas. --- Section Separator --- Doing business at Alert Level 1 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 3 Doing business at Alert Level 4 Record keeping and contact tracing Get your QR code poster Vaccine information for businesses Mandatory vaccinations for workers
Help protect Aotearoa by encouraging staff and visitors to scan in every time they visit your business. --- Section Separator --- Record keeping involves collecting the details of all workers, customers, and visitors who visit your workplace or location. If there is a case of COVID-19 in the community, public health officials and contact tracers will use this information to identify people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. When businesses and event organisers keep records of who was at their workplace or location, it makes contact tracing faster and more efficient. Good record keeping and fast contact tracing will help stop the spread of COVID-19, and protect our businesses, communities and each other. --- Section Separator --- Many businesses and locations are now required to make sure people can easily keep a record of when they visit. This is a requirement at all Alert Levels. If you are the person in charge of a business, location or event, you legally must: make sure you have safe and secure systems and processes in place so that everyone working on or visiting your premises can scan in or provide their details for contact tracing keep contact tracing records for workers, contractors, customers, and volunteers, no matter how long they are there for keep a record of everyone aged 12 years or over who visits or works at your premises. You legally must have more than one way for people to record their visit, especially for people who are not able to scan QR codes. Your system for recording customers and visitors can include: asking people to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app recording your customers' and visitors' details manually providing paper forms for customers and visitors to fill in with their details and place in a collection box using your existing record-keeping systems, such as swipe-card access or appointment bookings. You still need to continue displaying your QR code poster even if you are not required to collect customer records. More information and advice on record keeping | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Certain businesses and event organisers legally must have a way for customers and visitors to record that they have entered their premises or attended a gathering or event. You must have ways to record a visit if you are: a cafe, restaurant, bar or nightclub a health service a close-contact personal care service — for example, a hairdresser or beautician an indoor exercise facility — for example a gym or swimming pool an entertainment venue — for example a cinema, stadium, theatre or casino an indoor public facility where people gather — museums or libraries a court or tribunal a social services provider with customer service counters — such as a Ministry of Social Development office organising a wedding, funeral, tangihanga or faith-based service organising a concert having a gathering or hui at a marae. At an event, for example a wedding or tangihanga, either the venue owner or operator, or the organiser/hirer of the venue can be the person who is responsible for making sure there are ways for people to record their visit. We still encourage you to keep contact tracing records and promote the use of the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information about the NZ COVID Tracer app --- Section Separator --- Contact records are personal information. They need to be collected, used, stored, disclosed, and disposed of safely and securely in accordance with the Privacy Act 2020. The most secure way for customers and visitors to record their details is by scanning the NZ COVID Tracer app. If people cannot use the NZ COVID Tracer app, you need to make sure that any alternative method you use for contact tracing protects people’s privacy, and that you only use the information they provide for contact tracing purposes. Alternative recording systems require more care to keep them safe and secure. Do not leave paper-based records out in the open where others can see the information. This is the leading cause of COVID-19-related privacy breaches. The Office of the Privacy Commissioner's website has practical guidance that will help you protect people's privacy when using alternative contact recording methods. Use a simple privacy statement alongside your alternative record keeping system to let people know why the information is needed and how long you need it for. Guidance on mandatory record keeping for contact tracing | privacy.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are several ways you can make record keeping easier for you and your workers, customers and visitors. --- Section Separator --- If someone refuses to or is unable to scan in, you are not expected to force someone to provide their details, or to refuse them entry. Remember, some people may have their own way of keeping track of where they have been. It is up to you to decide what is appropriate for your premises and the wellbeing of your staff and other customers. --- Section Separator --- Download and print record keeping slips, stickers and a box template. You can also print posters to remind staff, customers and visitors to scan in. Resources --- Section Separator --- If you do not follow these record keeping requirements, you will be fined an infringement fee of $300 or a court-imposed fine of up to $1,000. Failing to display a QR code will continue to be an infringement offence carrying an infringement fee of $300 or court imposed fine of up to $1,000.
Home Business and money Employees Working safely at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, your workplace can open and have customers on site, but with some restrictions. You must scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app or record your details for contact tracing every time you enter your workplace. If you go into your workplace, keep 1 metre apart from other people you work with, and 2 metres apart from customers or visitors. In some places where there is a cap on the number of people permitted on the premises — for example if you work at a cafe or restaurant, you only need to keep 1 metre apart from customers. If you need to have meetings, use a large room with enough space for everyone to physically distance or use video conferencing. If you use someone else’s desk, devices or tools, clean and disinfect them before and after use. If your job involves interacting with customers, you must wear a face covering while you are at work. Some people are exempt from wearing a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering If your job involves interacting with customers, try to limit contact by offering contactless payment methods, and contactless delivery. Regularly clean and disinfect high-touch surfaces like cash registers, EFTPOS machines and counter tops. Your employer may also ask you to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) if it is needed for your job. Customers are required to wear face coverings when visiting certain businesses. You should encourage customers to wear a face covering, but you do not have to enforce this, if people refuse. Talk to your employer about how they can help keep you safe. Keeping workers safe when asking customers to wear face coverings | advice from business.govt.nz (external link) Your employer may also ask you to work from home if you are able to, or offer flexible working arrangements to help meet physical distancing requirements. If you are worried about going into work, talk to your employer about flexible work arrangements. If there is something more your employer can do to keep you safe at work, talk to them and explain what you would like to happen. If you are a taxi, ride-share or delivery driver, you must wear a face covering. You must wear a face covering even if you have been vaccinated. If you are a delivery driver: you only need to wear a face covering when y ou are out of your vehicle. you must stay at least 2 metres away from other people when making deliveries to homes or workplaces. Advice for delivery drivers | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, you can go into someone's home to work — for example if you are a cleaner, tradesperson, nanny or in-home care provider. You must stay 2 metres apart from others. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If you go into someone's home to work, remember to keep a record of your visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time you arrive and leave a customer's home your customer's contact details. Do not go into someone's home if you or if the clients you visit are unwell. If you have been asked to isolate or get a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home and follow all public health guidelines. If you cannot work from home while isolating or while you wait for the results of a COVID-19 test, your employer can apply for financial assistance for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test (external link) Financial support if you need to isolate (external link) At Alert Level 2, you can travel locally using both public and private transport to get to work. Business or work travel across Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading. You can only travel across the Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundary if your reason for travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. Business travel over an Alert Level 3 and 2 boundary At Alert Level 2, you can travel freely within any Alert Level 2 areas for work. You can use both public and private transport. Remember to wear a face covering on all public transport services and to keep a record of the services you used. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, your workplace can open and have customers on site, but with some restrictions. You must scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app or record your details for contact tracing every time you enter your workplace. If you go into your workplace, keep 1 metre apart from other people you work with, and 2 metres apart from customers or visitors. In some places where there is a cap on the number of people permitted on the premises — for example if you work at a cafe or restaurant, you only need to keep 1 metre apart from customers. If you need to have meetings, use a large room with enough space for everyone to physically distance or use video conferencing. If you use someone else’s desk, devices or tools, clean and disinfect them before and after use. If your job involves interacting with customers, you must wear a face covering while you are at work. Some people are exempt from wearing a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering If your job involves interacting with customers, try to limit contact by offering contactless payment methods, and contactless delivery. Regularly clean and disinfect high-touch surfaces like cash registers, EFTPOS machines and counter tops. Your employer may also ask you to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) if it is needed for your job. Customers are required to wear face coverings when visiting certain businesses. You should encourage customers to wear a face covering, but you do not have to enforce this, if people refuse. Talk to your employer about how they can help keep you safe. Keeping workers safe when asking customers to wear face coverings | advice from business.govt.nz (external link) Your employer may also ask you to work from home if you are able to, or offer flexible working arrangements to help meet physical distancing requirements. If you are worried about going into work, talk to your employer about flexible work arrangements. If there is something more your employer can do to keep you safe at work, talk to them and explain what you would like to happen. --- Section Separator --- If you are a taxi, ride-share or delivery driver, you must wear a face covering. You must wear a face covering even if you have been vaccinated. If you are a delivery driver: you only need to wear a face covering when y ou are out of your vehicle. you must stay at least 2 metres away from other people when making deliveries to homes or workplaces. Advice for delivery drivers | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can go into someone's home to work — for example if you are a cleaner, tradesperson, nanny or in-home care provider. You must stay 2 metres apart from others. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If you go into someone's home to work, remember to keep a record of your visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time you arrive and leave a customer's home your customer's contact details. Do not go into someone's home if you or if the clients you visit are unwell. --- Section Separator --- If you have been asked to isolate or get a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home and follow all public health guidelines. If you cannot work from home while isolating or while you wait for the results of a COVID-19 test, your employer can apply for financial assistance for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test (external link) Financial support if you need to isolate (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can travel locally using both public and private transport to get to work. Business or work travel across Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading. You can only travel across the Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 boundary if your reason for travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. Business travel over an Alert Level 3 and 2 boundary At Alert Level 2, you can travel freely within any Alert Level 2 areas for work. You can use both public and private transport. Remember to wear a face covering on all public transport services and to keep a record of the services you used. --- Section Separator --- Working safely at Alert Level 2 Working safely at Alert Level 3 Working safely at Alert Level 4 Vaccine information for workers
Home Business and money Employees Working safely at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you should work from home if you can. If you are working from home, your employer should: continue to pay you your normal pay check that you have all the equipment you need to work from home keep in regular contact with you make sure you have opportunities to stay connected with your workmates. All interactions with customers legally must be contactless. This means customers cannot come onto the premises, unless you work at a: supermarket dairy foodbank butcher fishmonger greengrocer petrol station pharmacy health care provider accomodation service liquor store in a Licencing Trust area court or tribunal social and community-based service to maintain critical wellbeing or crisis support rental car service veterinary or animal care service venue where a funeral, tangihanga, wedding or civil union ceremony is being held bank or financial institution public transport or passenger service hardware or DIY store — these stores can only open to trade customers. If you need to interact with customers, check that your employer has set up contactless options for payment, deliveries and collection. If your workplace is allowed customers on site, your employer should install screens or barriers to help with physical distancing. Your employer may also provide you with personal protective equipment (PPE), for example gloves to use as an extra safety measure. You also must keep 1 metre apart from people you work with. Your employer must provide you with training on the safety measures they have implemented, and consult with you before making any changes to the way you work. Your employer also needs to provide you with hand sanitiser and cleaning products so you can wash your hands and clean and disinfect equipment and surfaces you touch often. We recommend you scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app before you enter your workplace, or keeping your own record to help with contact tracing. You legally must wear a face covering if you work: at a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, licensing trust, pharmacy, food bank, self-service laundry, hardware store, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, shopping mall, bank or at New Zealand Post in the public-facing area of a court, tribunal or social service provider as a delivery driver to residential addresses — you only need to wear a face covering when you are out of your vehicle as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — you do not need to wear a face covering if you drive a school bus or are the skipper of a ferry between the North Island and South Island at a veterinary clinic in the passenger areas of the ferry that runs between the North and South Island. Some people are exempt from wearing a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering Limit physical interaction with workmates and customers as much as possible. Wear a face covering if you are required to. Keep track of where you have been by using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Wash and sanitise your hands often. Stay home if you feel unwell. If you feel unwell at work, let your employer know so you can go home. Get the vaccine when you are offered one. If you are feeling worried or anxious about going into your workplace, talk to your employer. At Alert Level 3, there are limited reasons for going into someone's home to work. You can go into someone's home to work if you are a tradesperson — for example a plumber, electrician or locksmith, a gardener or landscaper, or for pest control. You must wear a face covering when going into someone's home to work. If you go into someone's home to work: stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. keep a record of your visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording the date and time you arrive and leave a customer's home and your customer's contact details. Do not go into someone's home if you are unwell, or if the clients you visit are unwell. If you are a home cleaner, you can continue to support vulnerable people — for example, disabled people or people with health conditions. At Alert Level 3, in-home carers can continue to provide support. Your employer must have appropriate guidelines and systems in place to keep you safe at work. This includes following the public health guidelines and notifying you if the person you are providing care for is sick. If you are going into someone's home to provide care, you should: stay home if you are sick and get a test if you have any COVID-19 symptoms practise good hygiene at all times maintain physical distancing where possible use personal protective equipment (PPE) as appropriate keep a record of your visit for contact tracing purposes get a vaccine when you are offered one. If you have been asked to isolate or get a COVID-19 test, it's important you stay home and follow all public health guidelines. If you cannot work from home while isolating or while you wait for the results of a COVID-19 test, your employer can apply for financial assistance for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test (external link) Financial support if you need to isolate (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, you should work from home if you can. If you are working from home, your employer should: continue to pay you your normal pay check that you have all the equipment you need to work from home keep in regular contact with you make sure you have opportunities to stay connected with your workmates. --- Section Separator --- All interactions with customers legally must be contactless. This means customers cannot come onto the premises, unless you work at a: supermarket dairy foodbank butcher fishmonger greengrocer petrol station pharmacy health care provider accomodation service liquor store in a Licencing Trust area court or tribunal social and community-based service to maintain critical wellbeing or crisis support rental car service veterinary or animal care service venue where a funeral, tangihanga, wedding or civil union ceremony is being held bank or financial institution public transport or passenger service hardware or DIY store — these stores can only open to trade customers. If you need to interact with customers, check that your employer has set up contactless options for payment, deliveries and collection. If your workplace is allowed customers on site, your employer should install screens or barriers to help with physical distancing. Your employer may also provide you with personal protective equipment (PPE), for example gloves to use as an extra safety measure. You also must keep 1 metre apart from people you work with. Your employer must provide you with training on the safety measures they have implemented, and consult with you before making any changes to the way you work. Your employer also needs to provide you with hand sanitiser and cleaning products so you can wash your hands and clean and disinfect equipment and surfaces you touch often. We recommend you scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app before you enter your workplace, or keeping your own record to help with contact tracing. You legally must wear a face covering if you work: at a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, licensing trust, pharmacy, food bank, self-service laundry, hardware store, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, shopping mall, bank or at New Zealand Post in the public-facing area of a court, tribunal or social service provider as a delivery driver to residential addresses — you only need to wear a face covering when you are out of your vehicle as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — you do not need to wear a face covering if you drive a school bus or are the skipper of a ferry between the North Island and South Island at a veterinary clinic in the passenger areas of the ferry that runs between the North and South Island. Some people are exempt from wearing a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Limit physical interaction with workmates and customers as much as possible. Wear a face covering if you are required to. Keep track of where you have been by using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Wash and sanitise your hands often. Stay home if you feel unwell. If you feel unwell at work, let your employer know so you can go home. Get the vaccine when you are offered one. If you are feeling worried or anxious about going into your workplace, talk to your employer. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, there are limited reasons for going into someone's home to work. You can go into someone's home to work if you are a tradesperson — for example a plumber, electrician or locksmith, a gardener or landscaper, or for pest control. You must wear a face covering when going into someone's home to work. If you go into someone's home to work: stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. keep a record of your visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording the date and time you arrive and leave a customer's home and your customer's contact details. Do not go into someone's home if you are unwell, or if the clients you visit are unwell. If you are a home cleaner, you can continue to support vulnerable people — for example, disabled people or people with health conditions. At Alert Level 3, in-home carers can continue to provide support. Your employer must have appropriate guidelines and systems in place to keep you safe at work. This includes following the public health guidelines and notifying you if the person you are providing care for is sick. If you are going into someone's home to provide care, you should: stay home if you are sick and get a test if you have any COVID-19 symptoms practise good hygiene at all times maintain physical distancing where possible use personal protective equipment (PPE) as appropriate keep a record of your visit for contact tracing purposes get a vaccine when you are offered one. --- Section Separator --- If you have been asked to isolate or get a COVID-19 test, it's important you stay home and follow all public health guidelines. If you cannot work from home while isolating or while you wait for the results of a COVID-19 test, your employer can apply for financial assistance for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test (external link) Financial support if you need to isolate (external link) --- Section Separator --- Working safely at Alert Level 2 Working safely at Alert Level 3 Working safely at Alert Level 4 Vaccine information for workers
Home Business and money Employees Working safely at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you must work from home. You can go to work at your workplace if you are employed by a business that is authorised to provide goods or services at Alert Level 4. This includes: supermarket workers service station attendants dairy owners and shop assistants who work in a dairy courier and delivery drivers first responders — for example paramedics healthcare workers, including those who work in a pharmacy retirement home and aged care workers taxi and ride-share drivers freight and transport workers veterinary service providers workers who provide essential care for animals hardware store workers funeral directors tradespeople — for example plumbers, builders and electricians if they are carrying out urgent repair or maintenance mechanics carrying out urgent repairs mental health, addiction, support and social workers security service workers, including locksmiths cleaners working in an accommodation facility dairy farmers pest controllers horticulture workers any one working in an accommodation facility Not all businesses that operate at Alert Level 4 are allowed customers and clients in the workplace. Talk to your employer if you are unsure if you are an Alert Level 4 worker. Find out which businesses and services can operate at Alert Level 4 If your work involves i nteracting with customers or members of the public, you legally must wear a face covering while at work. S ome people are exempt from wearing a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering (external link) Limit physical interaction with workmates and customers as much as possible. Keep track of where you have been by using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Wash and sanitise your hands often Stay home if you feel unwell. If you feel unwell at work, let your employer know so you can go home. Get the vaccine when you are offered one. If you are feeling worried or anxious about going into your workplace, talk to your employer. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker, and: you have been at a location of interest at the time and date specified, or you live with someone who has been at a location of interest You legally must stay home and follow public health guidelines. Do not go into work. What to do if you have been at a location of interest (external link) You should also stay home if you are unwell. If you have cold or flu symptoms call your GP or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting a COVID-19 test. If you cannot work from home while isolating or while you wait for the results of a COVID-19 test, your employer can apply for financial assistance for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test Financial support if you need to isolate If you are an Alert Level 4 worker, it is very important that you keep checking the locations of interest so you can isolate immediately if you visited them at the relevant times. This is to stop the spread of the virus further. Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 has visited. You are a contact if you have been at a location of interest at the specified time. Check the locations of interest and follow the health advice of the Ministry of Health. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 4, you can go into someone's home to work if you are a tradesperson — for example a plumber, electrician or locksmith. You can only do urgent repair or maintenance work — if it is critical to safety, or to maintain the necessities of life. You must wear a face covering when going into someone's home to work. You do not need to wear a face covering if you are a carer looking after children in someone's home. You should stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If you go into someone's home to work, you must keep a record of your visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time you arrive and leave a customer's home your customer's contact details. Do not go into someone's home if you are unwell, or if the clients you visit are unwell. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work. You can use public or private transport to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can prove you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: your name that you are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service, and your destination. Public transport services may have limited capacity at Alert Level 4. You will not be permitted to stand so everyone can safely distance. If you need to use public transport to get to work, we recommend you talk to your employer about flexible working options. Public transport at Alert Level 4 You legally must wear a face covering on all public transport, including at departure points such as train stations or bus stops. If you are working from home, your employer should: continue to pay you your normal pay support you to have all the equipment you need to work from home keep in regular contact with you make sure you have opportunities to stay connected with your workmates It's important to look after your mental health and wellbeing while you are working from home. Advice on staying mentally healthy when working from home | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) You can travel to your workplace to collect equipment to help you work from home. Make sure you check with your employer about the rules for entering the workplace premises. When going into your workplace, you should: plan what you need so you limit your time on the premises safely physically distance from other people who may be in the workplace wear a face covering if possible scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Do not go into your workplace if you are unwell, have been asked to isolate or if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you must work from home. You can go to work at your workplace if you are employed by a business that is authorised to provide goods or services at Alert Level 4. This includes: supermarket workers service station attendants dairy owners and shop assistants who work in a dairy courier and delivery drivers first responders — for example paramedics healthcare workers, including those who work in a pharmacy retirement home and aged care workers taxi and ride-share drivers freight and transport workers veterinary service providers workers who provide essential care for animals hardware store workers funeral directors tradespeople — for example plumbers, builders and electricians if they are carrying out urgent repair or maintenance mechanics carrying out urgent repairs mental health, addiction, support and social workers security service workers, including locksmiths cleaners working in an accommodation facility dairy farmers pest controllers horticulture workers any one working in an accommodation facility Not all businesses that operate at Alert Level 4 are allowed customers and clients in the workplace. Talk to your employer if you are unsure if you are an Alert Level 4 worker. Find out which businesses and services can operate at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- If your work involves i nteracting with customers or members of the public, you legally must wear a face covering while at work. S ome people are exempt from wearing a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering (external link) Limit physical interaction with workmates and customers as much as possible. Keep track of where you have been by using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Wash and sanitise your hands often Stay home if you feel unwell. If you feel unwell at work, let your employer know so you can go home. Get the vaccine when you are offered one. If you are feeling worried or anxious about going into your workplace, talk to your employer. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker, and: you have been at a location of interest at the time and date specified, or you live with someone who has been at a location of interest You legally must stay home and follow public health guidelines. Do not go into work. What to do if you have been at a location of interest (external link) You should also stay home if you are unwell. If you have cold or flu symptoms call your GP or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on getting a COVID-19 test. If you cannot work from home while isolating or while you wait for the results of a COVID-19 test, your employer can apply for financial assistance for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test Financial support if you need to isolate If you are an Alert Level 4 worker, it is very important that you keep checking the locations of interest so you can isolate immediately if you visited them at the relevant times. This is to stop the spread of the virus further. Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 has visited. You are a contact if you have been at a location of interest at the specified time. Check the locations of interest and follow the health advice of the Ministry of Health. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you can go into someone's home to work if you are a tradesperson — for example a plumber, electrician or locksmith. You can only do urgent repair or maintenance work — if it is critical to safety, or to maintain the necessities of life. You must wear a face covering when going into someone's home to work. You do not need to wear a face covering if you are a carer looking after children in someone's home. You should stay 2 metres apart from everyone in the home. We recommend having online payment options to minimise physical contact. If you go into someone's home to work, you must keep a record of your visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time you arrive and leave a customer's home your customer's contact details. Do not go into someone's home if you are unwell, or if the clients you visit are unwell. --- Section Separator --- If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work. You can use public or private transport to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can prove you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: your name that you are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service, and your destination. Public transport services may have limited capacity at Alert Level 4. You will not be permitted to stand so everyone can safely distance. If you need to use public transport to get to work, we recommend you talk to your employer about flexible working options. Public transport at Alert Level 4 You legally must wear a face covering on all public transport, including at departure points such as train stations or bus stops. --- Section Separator --- If you are working from home, your employer should: continue to pay you your normal pay support you to have all the equipment you need to work from home keep in regular contact with you make sure you have opportunities to stay connected with your workmates It's important to look after your mental health and wellbeing while you are working from home. Advice on staying mentally healthy when working from home | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) You can travel to your workplace to collect equipment to help you work from home. Make sure you check with your employer about the rules for entering the workplace premises. When going into your workplace, you should: plan what you need so you limit your time on the premises safely physically distance from other people who may be in the workplace wear a face covering if possible scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app. Do not go into your workplace if you are unwell, have been asked to isolate or if you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. --- Section Separator --- Working safely at Alert Level 2 Working safely at Alert Level 3 Working safely at Alert Level 4 Vaccine information for workers
If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Find out what financial support you can get for your business. Financial support is available for community groups and organisations. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress. --- Section Separator --- If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Find out what financial support you can get for your business. Financial support is available for community groups and organisations. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you are experiencing financial distress.
Home Business and money Financial support Businesses --- Section Separator --- Applications for the fifth round of the August 2021 Wage Subsidy are now open. You can apply until 11:59pm 28 October 2021. The payment rates and eligibility criteria remain the same. Wage Subsidy Scheme The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be available to all businesses while any part of the country is in Alert Levels 3 or 4. For example, while Auckland is in Alert Levels 3 or 4, businesses in Auckland and other parts of the country can apply for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme. You can apply for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme to help keep paying your staff and protect jobs. Businesses must meet the eligibility criteria to apply. Businesses and self-employed people must expect a 40% drop in revenue to be eligible to receive the wage subsidy. The wage subsidy is paid in a 2 week lump sum. You can get: $600 per week for each full-time employee $359 per week for each part-time employee You cannot get the Wage Subsidy August 2021, Leave Support Scheme and Short-Term Absence Payment for the same employee at the same time. Applications for the fifth August 2021 Wage Subsidy are now open. The payment rates and eligibility criteria remain the same. If you did not apply for the fourth Wage Subsidy you can apply for the fifth one if you meet eligibility criteria. If you applied for the fourth August 2021 Wage Subsidy, you will need to wait 2 weeks after your application before you can apply for the fifth Wage Subsidy, even if you haven't received a payment yet. Apply for the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) The COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment helps to cover wages and fixed costs for businesses who have been directly affected when there is an increase to Alert Level 2 or higher for a week or more. To be eligible, your business must have experienced at least a 30% drop in revenue or a 30% decline in capital-raising ability over a 7-day period, due to an increase in Alert Levels. You can receive $1,500 per business plus $400 per full-time employee ( FTE), up to 50 FTE. The maximum payment is $21,500. If you're a sole trader, you can receive a payment of up to $1,900. Businesses anywhere in New Zealand can apply if they meet the eligibility criteria. You can apply for both the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment and the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme if you meet all the eligible criteria. Applications for a third round of the Resurgence Support Payment are now open. The payment and eligibility criteria are the same as the current scheme. You can receive all three payments if you are eligible for them. Apply for the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment (external link) If you employ 50 or fewer staff, you may be able to apply for the Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme. This is a one-off 5 year loan. You can b orrow a maximum of $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee within your business . When applying for the loan, you need to be able to declare that your business is viable. Your business must have experienced a minimum 30% decline in actual or predicted revenue over the period of a month, compared with the same month last year. Applications are open until 31 December 2023 through myIR. If your business does not have a myIR account, you will need to create one to apply. Loans will be interest free if they are paid back within 2 years. The interest rate is 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Apply for the Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme (external link) (external link) (external link) If you are finding it hard to meet your tax obligations due to COVID-19, Inland Revenue may be able to help. COVID-19 information for businesses | Inland Revenue (external link) If you cannot meet the full rental costs for your business, you can talk to your landlord to come to an agreement about a payment that is fair. Both you and the landlord need to agree on the amount. If you cannot agree to on a fair amount, you will need to go to arbitration. Help with commercial rent (external link) The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to get a month’s protection while they talk to their creditors. During this period, most creditors cannot take legal action to enforce their debts, for example, applying for your business to be liquidated. If your creditors agree, you can get a further 6 months’ protection. Applications are open until 31 October 2021. Find out if business debt hibernation is an option for you (external link) If an employee has been asked to self-isolate by a doctor or health official, they legally must stay home until they are told they no longer need to by public health officials. If an employee cannot work from home while self-isolating, you may be able to apply for financial support so they can continue to get paid. If your employees have been asked to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. Employees on a casual contract are also eligible for the payment. You can also use the payment to help pay employees who: are sick with COVID-19 and need to isolate until a doctor tells them they no longer need to have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19 are at a higher risk of getting sick from COVID-19 live with someone who is at high risk of getting sick from COVID-19, and a doctor or health professional has told people in the household to isolate to reduce the risk of transmitting COVID-19 to vulnerable household members have been asked to self-isolate by public health officials need to stay home and look after a dependent child who needs support to self-isolate. The Leave Support Scheme is paid as a 2 week lump sum at the rate of: $600 a week for full-time employees $359 a week for part-time employees Employers and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. This payment is available anytime, and is not restricted to a change in Alert Levels. You cannot get the Wage Subsidy August 2021, Leave Support Scheme and Short-Term Absence Payment for the same employee at the same time. Apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) If an employee has been asked to get a COVID-19 test, they must stay home until they get a negative result. If an employee cannot work from home, you may be able to apply for financial support so they can continue to get paid. The COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment helps businesses keep paying employees who cannot work from home and: need to stay at home while waiting for a COVID-19 test result need to stay home and look after a dependent child who has been asked to get a COVID-19 test, or live with someone who has been at a location of interest and need to stay home while they wait for the person in the household to get a negative test result. Employees on a casual contract are also eligible for the payment. You can get a one-off amount of $359 for each eligible worker while they are staying home waiting for test results. The amount is the same for both full-time and part-time employees. You can apply for the Short-term Absence Payment any time, not just when there is a risk of community transmission, or change in Alert Levels. You cannot get the Wage Subsidy August 2021, Leave Support Scheme and Short-Term Absence Payment for the same employee at the same time. Apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) --- Section Separator --- Applications for the fifth round of the August 2021 Wage Subsidy are now open. You can apply until 11:59pm 28 October 2021. The payment rates and eligibility criteria remain the same. Wage Subsidy Scheme --- Section Separator --- The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be available to all businesses while any part of the country is in Alert Levels 3 or 4. For example, while Auckland is in Alert Levels 3 or 4, businesses in Auckland and other parts of the country can apply for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme. You can apply for the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme to help keep paying your staff and protect jobs. Businesses must meet the eligibility criteria to apply. Businesses and self-employed people must expect a 40% drop in revenue to be eligible to receive the wage subsidy. The wage subsidy is paid in a 2 week lump sum. You can get: $600 per week for each full-time employee $359 per week for each part-time employee You cannot get the Wage Subsidy August 2021, Leave Support Scheme and Short-Term Absence Payment for the same employee at the same time. Applications for the fifth August 2021 Wage Subsidy are now open. The payment rates and eligibility criteria remain the same. If you did not apply for the fourth Wage Subsidy you can apply for the fifth one if you meet eligibility criteria. If you applied for the fourth August 2021 Wage Subsidy, you will need to wait 2 weeks after your application before you can apply for the fifth Wage Subsidy, even if you haven't received a payment yet. Apply for the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) The COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment helps to cover wages and fixed costs for businesses who have been directly affected when there is an increase to Alert Level 2 or higher for a week or more. To be eligible, your business must have experienced at least a 30% drop in revenue or a 30% decline in capital-raising ability over a 7-day period, due to an increase in Alert Levels. You can receive $1,500 per business plus $400 per full-time employee ( FTE), up to 50 FTE. The maximum payment is $21,500. If you're a sole trader, you can receive a payment of up to $1,900. Businesses anywhere in New Zealand can apply if they meet the eligibility criteria. You can apply for both the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment and the COVID-19 Wage Subsidy Scheme if you meet all the eligible criteria. Applications for a third round of the Resurgence Support Payment are now open. The payment and eligibility criteria are the same as the current scheme. You can receive all three payments if you are eligible for them. Apply for the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment (external link) If you employ 50 or fewer staff, you may be able to apply for the Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme. This is a one-off 5 year loan. You can b orrow a maximum of $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee within your business . When applying for the loan, you need to be able to declare that your business is viable. Your business must have experienced a minimum 30% decline in actual or predicted revenue over the period of a month, compared with the same month last year. Applications are open until 31 December 2023 through myIR. If your business does not have a myIR account, you will need to create one to apply. Loans will be interest free if they are paid back within 2 years. The interest rate is 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Apply for the Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme (external link) (external link) (external link) If you are finding it hard to meet your tax obligations due to COVID-19, Inland Revenue may be able to help. COVID-19 information for businesses | Inland Revenue (external link) If you cannot meet the full rental costs for your business, you can talk to your landlord to come to an agreement about a payment that is fair. Both you and the landlord need to agree on the amount. If you cannot agree to on a fair amount, you will need to go to arbitration. Help with commercial rent (external link) The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to get a month’s protection while they talk to their creditors. During this period, most creditors cannot take legal action to enforce their debts, for example, applying for your business to be liquidated. If your creditors agree, you can get a further 6 months’ protection. Applications are open until 31 October 2021. Find out if business debt hibernation is an option for you (external link) --- Section Separator --- If an employee has been asked to self-isolate by a doctor or health official, they legally must stay home until they are told they no longer need to by public health officials. If an employee cannot work from home while self-isolating, you may be able to apply for financial support so they can continue to get paid. If your employees have been asked to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. Employees on a casual contract are also eligible for the payment. You can also use the payment to help pay employees who: are sick with COVID-19 and need to isolate until a doctor tells them they no longer need to have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19 are at a higher risk of getting sick from COVID-19 live with someone who is at high risk of getting sick from COVID-19, and a doctor or health professional has told people in the household to isolate to reduce the risk of transmitting COVID-19 to vulnerable household members have been asked to self-isolate by public health officials need to stay home and look after a dependent child who needs support to self-isolate. The Leave Support Scheme is paid as a 2 week lump sum at the rate of: $600 a week for full-time employees $359 a week for part-time employees Employers and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. This payment is available anytime, and is not restricted to a change in Alert Levels. You cannot get the Wage Subsidy August 2021, Leave Support Scheme and Short-Term Absence Payment for the same employee at the same time. Apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) --- Section Separator --- If an employee has been asked to get a COVID-19 test, they must stay home until they get a negative result. If an employee cannot work from home, you may be able to apply for financial support so they can continue to get paid. The COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment helps businesses keep paying employees who cannot work from home and: need to stay at home while waiting for a COVID-19 test result need to stay home and look after a dependent child who has been asked to get a COVID-19 test, or live with someone who has been at a location of interest and need to stay home while they wait for the person in the household to get a negative test result. Employees on a casual contract are also eligible for the payment. You can get a one-off amount of $359 for each eligible worker while they are staying home waiting for test results. The amount is the same for both full-time and part-time employees. You can apply for the Short-term Absence Payment any time, not just when there is a risk of community transmission, or change in Alert Levels. You cannot get the Wage Subsidy August 2021, Leave Support Scheme and Short-Term Absence Payment for the same employee at the same time. Apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) --- Section Separator --- Individuals and whānau Businesses Communities and clubs COVID-19 financial support tool
Home Business and money Financial support Communities and clubs --- Section Separator --- The Ethnic Communities Development Fund is available for projects that support ethnic communities to grow their skills, celebrate their culture and take part in society. It is also available for initiatives that support our communities as they deal with the challenges of COVID-19. Any group can apply if your project supports ethnic communities in New Zealand. The fund’s definition of ethnic communities includes migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: African Asian Continental European Latin American Middle Eastern $4.2 million a year is available through the Ethnic Communities Development Fund. Groups with legal status (this includes trusts and incorporated societies) can apply for over $10,000. Groups without legal status can apply for up to $10,000. You can apply at any time — there is no closing date. Apply now (external link) The Outdoor Education Support fund is available for organisations that provide outdoor education opportunities for tamariki (children) aged 5 to 11 years, and rangatahi (young people) aged 12 to 18 years. This fund is for organisations that have experienced a loss of revenue or financial hardship due to the August 2021 Alert Level restrictions. Eligible applicants must be an incorporated society, registered charity, charitable trust, or social enterprise. The Outdoor Education support fund is available to help cover fixed operating costs — other than salaries and wages. Organisations who are eligible can apply for up to $150,000. Applications are open until 5pm on Friday 29 October 2021. Apply now (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ethnic Communities Development Fund is available for projects that support ethnic communities to grow their skills, celebrate their culture and take part in society. It is also available for initiatives that support our communities as they deal with the challenges of COVID-19. Any group can apply if your project supports ethnic communities in New Zealand. The fund’s definition of ethnic communities includes migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: African Asian Continental European Latin American Middle Eastern $4.2 million a year is available through the Ethnic Communities Development Fund. Groups with legal status (this includes trusts and incorporated societies) can apply for over $10,000. Groups without legal status can apply for up to $10,000. You can apply at any time — there is no closing date. Apply now (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Outdoor Education Support fund is available for organisations that provide outdoor education opportunities for tamariki (children) aged 5 to 11 years, and rangatahi (young people) aged 12 to 18 years. This fund is for organisations that have experienced a loss of revenue or financial hardship due to the August 2021 Alert Level restrictions. Eligible applicants must be an incorporated society, registered charity, charitable trust, or social enterprise. The Outdoor Education support fund is available to help cover fixed operating costs — other than salaries and wages. Organisations who are eligible can apply for up to $150,000. Applications are open until 5pm on Friday 29 October 2021. Apply now (external link) --- Section Separator --- Individuals and whānau Businesses Communities and clubs COVID-19 financial support tool
Home Business and money Financial support Individuals and whānau --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: your work status, for example job loss due to COVID-19 your situation, for example your business is unable to operate whether your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool If you have lost your job, cannot work or are working fewer hours, you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent or mortgage, board, emergency housing, moving house power, gas, heating or water bills medical and dental costs. You do not need to be on a benefit to get financial support. Call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 or use their online calculator to check what you might be eligible for. Check what you might get | msd.govt.nz (external link) Whānau Ora helps whānau access health and welfare services, and meet basic needs for food, accommodation, heating, internet connectivity, water and sewerage. You can contact Whānau Ora on: 0800 929 282 if you are in the North Island 0800 187 689 if you are in the South Island If you are a tertiary student, you can contact Studylink for advice. COVID-19 information for students | studylink.govt.nz (external link) If you are worried about your mortgage repayments, talk to your bank or finance company about the options that are available to you. Work and Income can also help with o ther accommodation costs, or support to stay in your home — for example help with essential repairs or maintenance or with heating costs. Help with housing costs (external link) If you are having trouble paying your rent due to COVID-19, let your landlord know straight away. You may be able to work together to agree on a repayment plan, or negotiate your rent for a period of time so you can stay in your home. Information for landlords and tenants on negotiating rent (external link) If you have overdue rent and you are worried you will lose your housing, you can talk to Work and Income for support. Find out about rent arrears assistance and how to apply (external link) Work and Income can also help with o ther accommodation costs, or support to stay in your home — for example help with essential repairs or maintenance or with heating costs. Help with housing costs (external link) If your income has reduced or you cannot work because of Alert Level restrictions, your employer can apply for the Wage Subsidy Scheme to help keep paying you. The Wage Subsidy Scheme is available to all businesses while any part of the country is in Alert Levels 3 or 4. Your employer needs to meet the eligibility criteria to apply — they do not need to be in an Alert Level 3 area. You can also apply if you are self employed. Applications for the fourth August 2021 Wage Subsidy are now open. Wage Subsidy Scheme If your employer applies for the wage subsidy, they must pay you at least 80% of your normal pay. If they cannot, they must pass on the total amount of the subsidy to you. If you normally earn less than the subsidy amount, your employer must continue to pay your normal pay. Regular employment law still applies during different COVID-19 alert levels. Information for workers on leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. Think about whether you can work from home. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. You can also apply if you are self-employed. Your employer can also get this payment for you if you: need to stay home and look after a dependent child who has been asked to get a COVID-19 test live with someone who has been at a location of interest and need to stay home while they wait for the person in the household to get a negative test result. You employer can get a one-off payment of $359 to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) If you have been asked by health officials to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer needs to apply for you. Y ou can also apply if you are self-employed. Your employer can also get this payment for you if you: are sick with COVID-19 and need to isolate until a doctor tells you that you no longer need to have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19 are at a higher risk of getting sick from COVID-19 live with someone who is at high risk of getting sick from COVID-19, and a doctor or health professional has told people in the household to isolate to reduce the risk of transmitting COVID-19 to vulnerable household members have been asked to self-isolate by public health officials need to stay home and look after a dependent child who needs support to self-isolate. Your employer can get $600 per week if you work full time, and $359 per week if you work part time to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) If your employment has been affected and you are experiencing financial hardship, or you need help getting home, your embassy or consulate may be able to help. People on a temporary visa are not eligible for help from Work and Income. Find the contact details and opening hours of your country's embassy, consulate or high commission in New Zealand (external link) If you're an international student and are experiencing financial hardship, we recommend you speak to your education provider or student association. They may be able to offer you free budgeting advice, or tell you about funds that are available. --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: your work status, for example job loss due to COVID-19 your situation, for example your business is unable to operate whether your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job, cannot work or are working fewer hours, you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent or mortgage, board, emergency housing, moving house power, gas, heating or water bills medical and dental costs. You do not need to be on a benefit to get financial support. Call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 or use their online calculator to check what you might be eligible for. Check what you might get | msd.govt.nz (external link) Whānau Ora helps whānau access health and welfare services, and meet basic needs for food, accommodation, heating, internet connectivity, water and sewerage. You can contact Whānau Ora on: 0800 929 282 if you are in the North Island 0800 187 689 if you are in the South Island If you are a tertiary student, you can contact Studylink for advice. COVID-19 information for students | studylink.govt.nz (external link) If you are worried about your mortgage repayments, talk to your bank or finance company about the options that are available to you. Work and Income can also help with o ther accommodation costs, or support to stay in your home — for example help with essential repairs or maintenance or with heating costs. Help with housing costs (external link) If you are having trouble paying your rent due to COVID-19, let your landlord know straight away. You may be able to work together to agree on a repayment plan, or negotiate your rent for a period of time so you can stay in your home. Information for landlords and tenants on negotiating rent (external link) If you have overdue rent and you are worried you will lose your housing, you can talk to Work and Income for support. Find out about rent arrears assistance and how to apply (external link) Work and Income can also help with o ther accommodation costs, or support to stay in your home — for example help with essential repairs or maintenance or with heating costs. Help with housing costs (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your income has reduced or you cannot work because of Alert Level restrictions, your employer can apply for the Wage Subsidy Scheme to help keep paying you. The Wage Subsidy Scheme is available to all businesses while any part of the country is in Alert Levels 3 or 4. Your employer needs to meet the eligibility criteria to apply — they do not need to be in an Alert Level 3 area. You can also apply if you are self employed. Applications for the fourth August 2021 Wage Subsidy are now open. Wage Subsidy Scheme If your employer applies for the wage subsidy, they must pay you at least 80% of your normal pay. If they cannot, they must pass on the total amount of the subsidy to you. If you normally earn less than the subsidy amount, your employer must continue to pay your normal pay. Regular employment law still applies during different COVID-19 alert levels. Information for workers on leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. Think about whether you can work from home. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. You can also apply if you are self-employed. Your employer can also get this payment for you if you: need to stay home and look after a dependent child who has been asked to get a COVID-19 test live with someone who has been at a location of interest and need to stay home while they wait for the person in the household to get a negative test result. You employer can get a one-off payment of $359 to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have been asked by health officials to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer needs to apply for you. Y ou can also apply if you are self-employed. Your employer can also get this payment for you if you: are sick with COVID-19 and need to isolate until a doctor tells you that you no longer need to have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19 are at a higher risk of getting sick from COVID-19 live with someone who is at high risk of getting sick from COVID-19, and a doctor or health professional has told people in the household to isolate to reduce the risk of transmitting COVID-19 to vulnerable household members have been asked to self-isolate by public health officials need to stay home and look after a dependent child who needs support to self-isolate. Your employer can get $600 per week if you work full time, and $359 per week if you work part time to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) --- Section Separator --- All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your employment has been affected and you are experiencing financial hardship, or you need help getting home, your embassy or consulate may be able to help. People on a temporary visa are not eligible for help from Work and Income. Find the contact details and opening hours of your country's embassy, consulate or high commission in New Zealand (external link) If you're an international student and are experiencing financial hardship, we recommend you speak to your education provider or student association. They may be able to offer you free budgeting advice, or tell you about funds that are available. --- Section Separator --- Individuals and whānau Businesses Communities and clubs COVID-19 financial support tool
Let's get back to doing the things we love. More than 130,000 people got vaccinated on Super Saturday. Book your free COVID-19 vaccine or visit a walk-in centre today. You might be interested in How to talk to whānau about the vaccine Your vaccine questions answered Side effects Pfizer vaccine Change your appointment My Covid Record Mandatory vaccinations NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine data --- Section Separator --- Find out about booking your vaccination, what to expect at your appointment, and the vaccine rollout groups. Find information about COVID-19 vaccination for businesses and workers, including border and MIQ workers. Discover NZ Vaccine Facts, learn about vaccine development, safety and effectiveness, and find resources to download and share. --- Section Separator --- Last updated 18 October 2021 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. COVID-19 Vaccination uptake rates across New Zealand (external link) (external link) COVID-19 Vaccination uptake rates across New Zealand (external link) (external link) COVID-19 Vaccination uptake rates within Māori communities (external link) (external link) COVID-19 Vaccination uptake rates within Māori communities (external link) (external link) COVID-19 Vaccination uptake rates within Pacific communities (external link) COVID-19 Vaccination uptake rates within Pacific communities (external link) 3,572,298 First dose administered 3,572,298 First dose administered 2,771,914 Second dose administered 2,771,914 Second dose administered 85% Eligible population with 1 dose 85% Eligible population with 1 dose 66% Eligible population with 2 doses 66% Eligible population with 2 doses --- Section Separator --- Episode 1: COVID-19 and why vaccinations are important Episode 2: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Episode 3: What is an mRNA vaccine? Episode 4: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? Episode 5: Are vaccines safe? Episode 6: What are the benefits of vaccination? Episode 7: How to get a vaccine and are there side effects? --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers.
We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out how COVID-19 vaccines were developed, how we know they are effective, and how the Pfizer vaccine works. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out how COVID-19 vaccines were developed, how we know they are effective, and how the Pfizer vaccine works. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination.
We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Answering your questions How was the vaccine made so quickly? Should I get vaccinated if I am pregnant? Does it work against Delta? Is it safe for children? Will I get side effects? Can I get a different vaccine? Will the vaccine stop transmission? --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines needed to be rolled out quickly, but that does not mean safety was compromised. The Pfizer vaccine we are using in New Zealand is held to the same high safety standards as any other medicine. COVID-19 vaccines are the most well-studied vaccines ever made. Nearly 50% of the world's population have had a COVID-19 vaccine, and more than 3 million people in Aotearoa have had their first Pfizer vaccine. This means we have lots of data to show the Pfizer vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety. --- Section Separator --- Dr Ashley Bloomfield on safety and development of the Pfizer vaccine Vaccinologist Helen Petousis-Harris on the safety of the vaccine How the vaccine was made, and its safety Sarah's story: Deciding to get the COVID-19 vaccine while pregnant Dr Nikki Turner on the safety of vaccines during pregnancy --- Section Separator --- Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. Studies show that 95% of people who have received 2 doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. --- Section Separator --- Dr Siouxsie Wiles explains how effective the vaccine is NZ Vaccine Facts: How the vaccine works against variants of COVID-19 Nanogirl explains why we need 2 doses of the vaccine How does the mRNA COVID-19 vaccine work? What are the benefits of vaccination? Mosi's story: Looking after his community --- Section Separator --- You might feel nervous about getting the vaccine, which is normal. A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm, and it will be over very fast. You will then need to stay for at least 15 minutes so we can make sure you do not have an immediate reaction. --- Section Separator --- How to get a vaccine and are there side effects? Vaccinating residents from Rakiura Stewart Island Vaccinator Priscilla shares her story about vaccinating her community Dr Ashley Bloomfield shares what it is like to have a first vaccine Dr Nikki Turner shares how she is feeling after her second vaccine Vaccinator Marie shares how she makes people comfortable when they get their vaccine --- Section Separator --- If you have questions we have not answered here, start by talking to your doctor. Your doctor is the health professional who knows you best. You can trust them to give you the most reliable and up to date information about the vaccine. Or, you can call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days). Translators are available if English is not your first language. --- Section Separator --- You do not have to wait to get your vaccination. You can book now or visit one of the many places around New Zealand where you can get vaccinated without an appointment. Book your vaccination Walk-in and drive-through centres
Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan. Find posters, stickers and more to help your business or community group get the word out about Super Saturday 16 October. --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan. Find posters, stickers and more to help your business or community group get the word out about Super Saturday 16 October.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine resources Fact sheets --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 148 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 89 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read --- Section Separator --- An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 148 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 89 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] --- Section Separator --- Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets Super Saturday resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets Super Saturday resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 837 KB] Information for all New Zealanders about the COVID-19 vaccine and how to book a vaccination. Aotearoa New Zealand — it's your time [PDF, 700 KB] Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 514 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 458 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB] We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. Watch all our campaign videos (external link) COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets Signs and posters for practising good hygiene How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. --- Section Separator --- Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 837 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information for all New Zealanders about the COVID-19 vaccine and how to book a vaccination. Aotearoa New Zealand — it's your time [PDF, 700 KB] Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 514 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 458 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. --- Section Separator --- Watch all our campaign videos (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets Signs and posters for practising good hygiene How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets Super Saturday resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets Super Saturday resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine resources Super Saturday resources --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets Super Saturday resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets Super Saturday resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Unite against COVID-19 Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Information for Māori communities — Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination information — Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] --- Section Separator --- It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Unite against COVID-19 Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Information for Māori communities — Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination information — Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. --- Section Separator --- Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Choose an episode Episode 1 Episode 2 Episode 3 Episode 4 Episode 5 Episode 6 Episode 7 --- Section Separator --- In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about how Aotearoa New Zealand responded to the COVID-19 pandemic, and why getting vaccinated is an important step towards protection from the virus. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the virus SARS-CoV-2. But what is a virus? And how do vaccines prepare you to fight off these ‘invaders’, so you are less likely to get sick if you catch it? --- Section Separator --- Vaccines can be made in different ways. For COVID-19, Aotearoa New Zealand chose to use a type of vaccine known as an mRNA vaccine, produced by Pfizer. But what is an mRNA vaccine? --- Section Separator --- It is natural for a virus to change and produce variations of itself. These are known as 'variants' and are all slightly different to the original virus. But will vaccines still work against them? --- Section Separator --- Development of vaccines for COVID-19 was based on decades of research. The vaccines were produced quickly because testing was able to be streamlined. Before getting consent for use in Aotearoa New Zealand, vaccines must meet our strict standards for quality and safety. --- Section Separator --- The benefits of getting a COVID-19 vaccine far outweigh the risks. A vaccination provides you, your whānau and your communities better protection against the virus. When everyone is vaccinated, this helps to end the pandemic. --- Section Separator --- Booking your COVID-19 vaccination is easy. When you get the 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine, you may experience some side effects. So what are they?
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination If you are pregnant or breastfeeding --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you’re pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) Sarah, 25 weeks pregnant, on vaccine hesitancy Doctor Nikki on pregnancy, COVID-19, and the vaccine If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility — IMAC (external link) Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 458 KB] Side effects Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you’re pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Sarah, 25 weeks pregnant, on vaccine hesitancy Doctor Nikki on pregnancy, COVID-19, and the vaccine --- Section Separator --- If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility — IMAC (external link) --- Section Separator --- Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 458 KB] Side effects Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination If you have a health condition --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the Pfizer vaccine had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer vaccine. What is in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the Pfizer vaccine had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. --- Section Separator --- If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer vaccine. What is in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination About the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. It does not contain any live, dead or deactivated viruses. It does not affect or interact with your DNA or genes. The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The vaccine sends a set of instructions to teach your body how to fight the COVID-19 virus. With these instructions, your body learns to recognise the COVID-19 virus and use antibodies against it. Antibodies stop the virus from infecting your cells and help to kill it. If you come into contact with the COVID-19 virus in the future, your body will have the right tools to protect itself so you are less likely to get sick. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. We know the Pfizer vaccine works because it went through months of clinical testing with more than 40,000 people before it was approved for use. Clinical trials compared the results of a vaccinated group with another group who received a placebo (salt solution). In the clinical trials, it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. COVID-19: Vaccine clinical trials and testing – Ministry of Health (external link) Data from England shows that 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine is highly effective against the Delta variant. Evidence also shows that the few vaccinated people who do get the Delta variant tend to have a milder illness with fewer symptoms. As with any vaccine, the Pfizer vaccine may not fully protect everyone who gets it from COVID-19. But research shows that if you get your 2 doses, you will have a high degree of protection against infection. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? COVID-19: About the Delta variant – Ministry of Health (external link) This is the first time scientists and governments from around the world have united to develop a vaccine. This global collaboration meant vaccines were developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Scientists had a head start because of all the research already carried out on related viruses. Governments, private companies and funding agencies have spent a lot of money. This means more could be done in a short space of time. Researchers and governments from different countries shared information and worked together. More people than usual volunteered for clinical trials. Some clinical trials were done at the same time, instead of one after another. Large manufacturing plants were built so more vaccines can be made faster than was possible before. Researchers could show the vaccine worked sooner than usual, because there are so many cases of COVID-19. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. Medsafe has given the Pfizer vaccine provisional approval (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It reviews data from ongoing clinical trials around the world, and reports from healthcare professionals and people who have been vaccinated. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) Under the current programme, the general public cannot receive a third booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine in New Zealand. You are considered fully vaccinated once you have had 2 doses. The Ministry of Health is reviewing the research as it becomes available and expects to make a decision about booster doses for this group in the coming months. Advice for people who are immunocompromised will be available soon. It is normal to have questions about taking a new medicine. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine. You can protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Learn how to spot misinformation and scams COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. It does not contain any live, dead or deactivated viruses. It does not affect or interact with your DNA or genes. --- Section Separator --- The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The vaccine sends a set of instructions to teach your body how to fight the COVID-19 virus. With these instructions, your body learns to recognise the COVID-19 virus and use antibodies against it. Antibodies stop the virus from infecting your cells and help to kill it. If you come into contact with the COVID-19 virus in the future, your body will have the right tools to protect itself so you are less likely to get sick. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. We know the Pfizer vaccine works because it went through months of clinical testing with more than 40,000 people before it was approved for use. Clinical trials compared the results of a vaccinated group with another group who received a placebo (salt solution). In the clinical trials, it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. COVID-19: Vaccine clinical trials and testing – Ministry of Health (external link) Data from England shows that 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine is highly effective against the Delta variant. Evidence also shows that the few vaccinated people who do get the Delta variant tend to have a milder illness with fewer symptoms. As with any vaccine, the Pfizer vaccine may not fully protect everyone who gets it from COVID-19. But research shows that if you get your 2 doses, you will have a high degree of protection against infection. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? COVID-19: About the Delta variant – Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- This is the first time scientists and governments from around the world have united to develop a vaccine. This global collaboration meant vaccines were developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Scientists had a head start because of all the research already carried out on related viruses. Governments, private companies and funding agencies have spent a lot of money. This means more could be done in a short space of time. Researchers and governments from different countries shared information and worked together. More people than usual volunteered for clinical trials. Some clinical trials were done at the same time, instead of one after another. Large manufacturing plants were built so more vaccines can be made faster than was possible before. Researchers could show the vaccine worked sooner than usual, because there are so many cases of COVID-19. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. Medsafe has given the Pfizer vaccine provisional approval (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It reviews data from ongoing clinical trials around the world, and reports from healthcare professionals and people who have been vaccinated. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Under the current programme, the general public cannot receive a third booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine in New Zealand. You are considered fully vaccinated once you have had 2 doses. The Ministry of Health is reviewing the research as it becomes available and expects to make a decision about booster doses for this group in the coming months. Advice for people who are immunocompromised will be available soon. --- Section Separator --- It is normal to have questions about taking a new medicine. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine. You can protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Learn how to spot misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can book online or by phone. You do not have to wait to get your COVID-19 vaccination. There are many places around New Zealand where you can get vaccinated without an appointment. For the best protection, it is important to get 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine. Find out how to change the details of a COVID-19 vaccination booking. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. You can access your COVID-19 vaccination records online at My Covid Record, or request a confirmation letter from the Ministry of Health. Everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can book online or by phone. You do not have to wait to get your COVID-19 vaccination. There are many places around New Zealand where you can get vaccinated without an appointment. For the best protection, it is important to get 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine. Find out how to change the details of a COVID-19 vaccination booking. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. You can access your COVID-19 vaccination records online at My Covid Record, or request a confirmation letter from the Ministry of Health. Everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their COVID-19 vaccination.
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Book your COVID-19 vaccination Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can book online or by phone. --- Section Separator --- If you are aged 12 or over, you can book your free COVID-19 vaccination now. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. You can book on behalf of someone else — or help them with their booking — if you have their permission. If you are a worker in a border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) setting, getting vaccinated for COVID-19 is mandatory. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations --- Section Separator --- The Book My Vaccine website is the fastest and easiest way to book and make changes to your appointments. It will take around 5 minutes to book your appointments. Book My Vaccine (external link) Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. Appointment availability map (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email the Book My Vaccine team at booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz Reschedule or cancel your booking --- Section Separator --- Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . All calls are free, and the team are available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. It will take around 15 minutes to book your appointments. It is a good idea to have your NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. You can find your NHI number on a hospital letter, a prescription or prescription receipt, or you can call 0800 855 066 . Reschedule or cancel your booking --- Section Separator --- As well as booked appointments, there are other ways to get vaccinated. This includes workplace vaccinations and other targeted vaccination events across the country. Some places offer walk-in or drive-through vaccinations, where you do not need to book. Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres --- Section Separator --- For the best protection, it is important to get 2 doses of the vaccine. The standard gap between doses when booking is now 3 weeks or more . Learn more about getting your second dose --- Section Separator --- Find out how to change the details of a COVID-19 vaccination booking. Reschedule or cancel your appointment --- Section Separator --- You may receive a purple vaccination card at your first appointment. This is not official proof of your vaccination — it is to remind you when your second appointment is. If you need written confirmation of your COVID-19 vaccination, you can request a letter from the Ministry of Health. Getting proof of your vaccination --- Section Separator --- If you need to be reminded of the time, date or venue for your appointments, you can try the following. If you booked with your email address or mobile number, your appointment details will have been sent to you. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. If you know your booking reference, you can check your appointment details through Book My Vaccine. Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Manage your appointments — Book My Vaccine (external link) They will be able to find your appointment details — you do not need to know your booking reference number. Call 0800 28 29 26 . --- Section Separator --- Young people aged 12 to 15 became eligible for vaccination in August 2021. Each person getting vaccinated will need a separate appointment. Vaccination centres will do everything to accommodate 12 to 15-year-olds who do not have bookings, but it may not always be possible. Please call ahead, especially if your appointment is at a smaller site like a pharmacy. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 514 KB] --- Section Separator --- If you are unwell on the day of your appointment, you will need to reschedule it. You can be vaccinated once you are well again. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, get a test and stay at home until you get your results. You can be vaccinated once you have a negative test. Reschedule your appointment --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres Super Saturday: Get vaccinated What to expect when you get your vaccination Information for Māori communities — Karawhuia (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Reschedule or cancel your appointment --- Section Separator --- To reschedule or cancel an appointment online, you will need your booking reference. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Click ‘Reschedule’. To choose a different vaccination centre, click ‘Change your location’. Choose a new date and time for your appointment. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Click ‘Cancel booking’. If you cannot find your booking reference, or you booked using a landline number, you can reschedule or cancel an appointment over the phone. Call the COVID Vaccine Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . Find your appointment details Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres --- Section Separator --- To reschedule or cancel an appointment online, you will need your booking reference. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Click ‘Reschedule’. To choose a different vaccination centre, click ‘Change your location’. Choose a new date and time for your appointment. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Click ‘Cancel booking’. If you cannot find your booking reference, or you booked using a landline number, you can reschedule or cancel an appointment over the phone. Call the COVID Vaccine Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . --- Section Separator --- Find your appointment details Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres --- Section Separator --- Book your COVID-19 vaccination Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres Getting your second dose Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination Getting proof of your vaccination COVID-19 vaccine rollout groups
Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over will be in 1 of 4 vaccine rollout groups. People at greater risk will get vaccinated first. Once it is your turn, you can be vaccinated at any time — there is no cut off. --- Section Separator --- Group 1 includes people working at the border or in MIQ, and the people they live with (household contacts). It is mandatory for workers at MIQ facilities, ports and airports who are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19 to get vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations How to book your vaccination --- Section Separator --- The Government is expanding the list of Alert Level 4 workers who can get early access to a COVID-19 vaccination. These people will be included in Group 2. Group 2 will now also include frontline staff who interact with customers and transport and logistic services directly supporting the vaccination programme. You are also in Group 2 if you: are a high-risk frontline healthcare worker (public or private) work in a long-term residential environment live in long-term residential care and are 12 or over are an older Māori or Pacific person being cared for by whānau live with or care for an older Māori or Pacific person live in the Counties Manukau DHB area and are 65 or over, have an underlying health condition or disability, are pregnant, or are in a custodial setting. How to book your vaccination --- Section Separator --- You are in this group if you: are aged 65 or over are eligible for a publicly funded influenza vaccine Eligibility criteria: Influenza vaccination (external link) are pregnant are disabled, or are caring for a person with a disability are severely obese (defined as a BMI ≥40) BMI calculator (external link) have high blood pressure requiring 2 or more medications for control are an adult in a custodial setting have been diagnosed with a severe mental illness ( which includes schizophrenia, major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder or schizoaffective disorder, and adults currently accessing secondary and tertiary mental health and addiction services). How to book your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Everyone aged 12 and over can book from Wednesday 1 September. Once it is your time, you can be vaccinated at any time — there is no cut off. We have ordered more than enough Pfizer vaccines for everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over to be able to be vaccinated by the end of the year. How to book your vaccination --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Getting proof of your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 16 and over can access their COVID-19 vaccination records online through a new website called My Covid Record. Soon, this will also be where you can download domestic and international digital vaccination certificates, and find your COVID-19 test results. My Covid Record is where you can access details of the COVID-19 vaccinations you have already had — including date, time, location, and batch number. The information comes from the data stored in the national COVID-19 Immunisation Register (CIR). Vaccination records will only show if the vaccinations have been administered in New Zealand. These records are for personal reference and cannot be used as proof of vaccination for overseas travel. Digital vaccination certificates will be available at the end of November 2021. Accessing your NHI number as a QR code will make visiting places like COVID-19 testing sites quick and easy, as it allows us to scan the QR code to identify you. You will be able to access your most recent COVID-19 test results in My Covid Record. We will be displaying records that are positive or negative, not those that are pending or inconclusive. My Covid Record (external link) There will be different vaccination certificates depending on whether you are using them within New Zealand, or for international travel. The QR codes will be different, and your international certificate will have more personal information. You will be able to either print or save the QR codes on your smartphone in your Apple Wallet or Google Pay. From the end of November 2021 you will be able to download a digital certificate as proof of vaccination for international travel. You can choose to print this and carry it in your passport or save it on your phone or laptop. These certificates will meet international standards. If you need proof of vaccination before the end of November, you can request a letter from Ministry of Health which confirms your vaccination status — this takes up to 10 working days. Request a vaccination confirmation letter (external link) You will be able to download a digital domestic vaccination certificate in late November. These will include a QR code that can be scanned at venues. You can print this or save it to your phone. Decisions are still being made about when proof of vaccination might be required for entry to events and venues. If you cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons, we are looking at options for how we can record this. To access My Covid Record, you must first create a My Health Account. You can do this from My Covid Record.You must be at least 16 years old to create an account. My Covid Record (external link) You will need to provide a valid New Zealand identity document so we can confirm your identity. You can provide your: driver licence passport birth certificate or citizenship certificate. If you need help with My Covid Record, or have a query about your COVID-19 records, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 We take your privacy seriously. Only you can access your secure My Health Account. Your account must be verified with a valid form of identification so we know it is actually you. By keeping your account safe, no one else will be able to access your records. If you need written confirmation of your COVID-19 vaccination, you can request a vaccination letter from the Ministry of Health. We recommend waiting until you have had 2 doses before requesting a vaccination letter. If you request a letter after your first vaccination, it will only show proof of 1 vaccination. Requesting proof of vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) You may receive a purple vaccination card at your first appointment. This is not official proof of your vaccination — it is to remind you when your second appointment is. So they can be contactless, some vaccination sites are not providing these cards at Alert Levels 2, 3 and 4. You can find the details of your second appointment through Book My Vaccine or by calling the COVID Vaccine Healthline. Find your appointment details When you get vaccinated, we record the details in the national COVID-19 Immunisation Register (CIR). This includes: your name, birth date, gender and National Health Index (NHI) number your address and contact details details about the vaccination/s you receive any reactions you have to the vaccine. The CIR will also record if you decide not to get a COVID-19 vaccine. COVID Immunisation Register (CIR) — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 16 and over can access their COVID-19 vaccination records online through a new website called My Covid Record. Soon, this will also be where you can download domestic and international digital vaccination certificates, and find your COVID-19 test results. My Covid Record is where you can access details of the COVID-19 vaccinations you have already had — including date, time, location, and batch number. The information comes from the data stored in the national COVID-19 Immunisation Register (CIR). Vaccination records will only show if the vaccinations have been administered in New Zealand. These records are for personal reference and cannot be used as proof of vaccination for overseas travel. Digital vaccination certificates will be available at the end of November 2021. Accessing your NHI number as a QR code will make visiting places like COVID-19 testing sites quick and easy, as it allows us to scan the QR code to identify you. You will be able to access your most recent COVID-19 test results in My Covid Record. We will be displaying records that are positive or negative, not those that are pending or inconclusive. My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- There will be different vaccination certificates depending on whether you are using them within New Zealand, or for international travel. The QR codes will be different, and your international certificate will have more personal information. You will be able to either print or save the QR codes on your smartphone in your Apple Wallet or Google Pay. From the end of November 2021 you will be able to download a digital certificate as proof of vaccination for international travel. You can choose to print this and carry it in your passport or save it on your phone or laptop. These certificates will meet international standards. If you need proof of vaccination before the end of November, you can request a letter from Ministry of Health which confirms your vaccination status — this takes up to 10 working days. Request a vaccination confirmation letter (external link) You will be able to download a digital domestic vaccination certificate in late November. These will include a QR code that can be scanned at venues. You can print this or save it to your phone. Decisions are still being made about when proof of vaccination might be required for entry to events and venues. If you cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons, we are looking at options for how we can record this. --- Section Separator --- To access My Covid Record, you must first create a My Health Account. You can do this from My Covid Record.You must be at least 16 years old to create an account. My Covid Record (external link) You will need to provide a valid New Zealand identity document so we can confirm your identity. You can provide your: driver licence passport birth certificate or citizenship certificate. If you need help with My Covid Record, or have a query about your COVID-19 records, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 --- Section Separator --- We take your privacy seriously. Only you can access your secure My Health Account. Your account must be verified with a valid form of identification so we know it is actually you. By keeping your account safe, no one else will be able to access your records. --- Section Separator --- If you need written confirmation of your COVID-19 vaccination, you can request a vaccination letter from the Ministry of Health. We recommend waiting until you have had 2 doses before requesting a vaccination letter. If you request a letter after your first vaccination, it will only show proof of 1 vaccination. Requesting proof of vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may receive a purple vaccination card at your first appointment. This is not official proof of your vaccination — it is to remind you when your second appointment is. So they can be contactless, some vaccination sites are not providing these cards at Alert Levels 2, 3 and 4. You can find the details of your second appointment through Book My Vaccine or by calling the COVID Vaccine Healthline. Find your appointment details --- Section Separator --- When you get vaccinated, we record the details in the national COVID-19 Immunisation Register (CIR). This includes: your name, birth date, gender and National Health Index (NHI) number your address and contact details details about the vaccination/s you receive any reactions you have to the vaccine. The CIR will also record if you decide not to get a COVID-19 vaccine. COVID Immunisation Register (CIR) — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Book your COVID-19 vaccination Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres Getting your second dose Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination Getting proof of your vaccination COVID-19 vaccine rollout groups
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Getting your second dose --- Section Separator --- The standard gap between doses is now 3 weeks or more . In August we extended the standard gap between first and second doses of the Pfizer vaccine from 3 to 6 weeks. This allowed us to give 1 dose (partial protection) to a larger number of people faster. A shorter time between the 2 doses is recommended in some cases — for example, when people are at higher risk of contracting COVID-19, or have a specific clinical treatment plan. Since then, the Delta outbreak has increased the risk of contracting COVID-19 for everyone in New Zealand, no matter where you are in the country. Because of this increased risk, we are now advising all New Zealanders to consider a shorter gap of 3 weeks between their 2 doses, instead of the standard 6 weeks. Reducing this gap means more people can be fully vaccinated sooner, increasing our community immunity. The minimum gap between doses will continue to be 21 days. If you already have vaccinations booked around 6 weeks apart, you can keep your second appointment as it is, or you can choose to change it. New bookings made through Book My Vaccine or via the COVID Vaccine Healthline will default back to 3 weeks between doses. The important thing is to get 2 doses of the vaccine to be fully vaccinated. If you have already been fully vaccinated and had your 2 doses closer together than 6 weeks, you have received your best protection. Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. Follow the same steps as for booking your first dose, either online or over the phone. You will be asked if you have had your first dose, and which type of vaccine it was. Book through Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 You can also choose to get your second dose without booking an appointment at a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres Under the current programme, the general public cannot receive a third booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine in New Zealand. You are considered fully vaccinated once you have had 2 doses. The Ministry of Health is reviewing the research as it becomes available and expects to make a decision about booster doses for this group in the coming months. Advice for people who are immunocompromised will be available soon. Side effects --- Section Separator --- The standard gap between doses is now 3 weeks or more . In August we extended the standard gap between first and second doses of the Pfizer vaccine from 3 to 6 weeks. This allowed us to give 1 dose (partial protection) to a larger number of people faster. A shorter time between the 2 doses is recommended in some cases — for example, when people are at higher risk of contracting COVID-19, or have a specific clinical treatment plan. Since then, the Delta outbreak has increased the risk of contracting COVID-19 for everyone in New Zealand, no matter where you are in the country. Because of this increased risk, we are now advising all New Zealanders to consider a shorter gap of 3 weeks between their 2 doses, instead of the standard 6 weeks. Reducing this gap means more people can be fully vaccinated sooner, increasing our community immunity. The minimum gap between doses will continue to be 21 days. If you already have vaccinations booked around 6 weeks apart, you can keep your second appointment as it is, or you can choose to change it. New bookings made through Book My Vaccine or via the COVID Vaccine Healthline will default back to 3 weeks between doses. The important thing is to get 2 doses of the vaccine to be fully vaccinated. If you have already been fully vaccinated and had your 2 doses closer together than 6 weeks, you have received your best protection. Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. --- Section Separator --- Follow the same steps as for booking your first dose, either online or over the phone. You will be asked if you have had your first dose, and which type of vaccine it was. Book through Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 You can also choose to get your second dose without booking an appointment at a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres --- Section Separator --- Under the current programme, the general public cannot receive a third booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine in New Zealand. You are considered fully vaccinated once you have had 2 doses. The Ministry of Health is reviewing the research as it becomes available and expects to make a decision about booster doses for this group in the coming months. Advice for people who are immunocompromised will be available soon. --- Section Separator --- Side effects --- Section Separator --- Book your COVID-19 vaccination Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres Getting your second dose Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination Getting proof of your vaccination COVID-19 vaccine rollout groups
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres You do not have to wait to get your COVID-19 vaccination. There are many places around New Zealand where you can get vaccinated without an appointment. --- Section Separator --- The Healthpoint website lists COVID-19 vaccination centres around New Zealand. To find walk-in and drive-through centres, choose your location and select 'No appointment required'. Healthpoint (external link) Use the interactive map on the Karawhiua website to find a vaccination centre near you. To find walk-in and drive-through centres, choose your location, the day that suits you and 'Vax now' as your appointment type. Karawhiua (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even if you have booked your vaccination already, you can choose to go to a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre instead. Make sure to cancel any appointments you no longer need. We need to give as many people as possible the opportunity to get vaccinated. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Select ‘cancel booking’. Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Book your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination COVID-19 vaccines
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Vaccination sites will operate under Alert Level 2 and 3 conditions. This means you legally must wear a face covering to your appointment. Wearing a face covering If you have a vaccination booked please go as planned — unless you have been contacted and told it is cancelled. A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. Note: If you are in Group 1, you will be asked to give written consent. This was the original consent process. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. The Pfizer vaccine is the only COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in New Zealand. We have secured 10 million doses – enough for 5 million people to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: is a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine does not contain any live virus, or dead or deactivated virus cannot give you COVID-19 cannot affect your DNA does not contain any animal products. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? We will record information about your COVID-19 vaccination in our COVID Immunisation Register (CIR), including the batch number. If you need written confirmation of your vaccination, you can request a letter from the Ministry of Health. Getting proof of your vaccination Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) COVID-19: About the Delta variant — Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Vaccination side effects For the best protection, it is important to get 2 doses of the vaccine. The standard gap between doses is now 3 weeks or more . Learn more about getting your second dose Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) Other vaccines we have agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccination sites will operate under Alert Level 2 and 3 conditions. This means you legally must wear a face covering to your appointment. Wearing a face covering If you have a vaccination booked please go as planned — unless you have been contacted and told it is cancelled. --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. Note: If you are in Group 1, you will be asked to give written consent. This was the original consent process. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is the only COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in New Zealand. We have secured 10 million doses – enough for 5 million people to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: is a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine does not contain any live virus, or dead or deactivated virus cannot give you COVID-19 cannot affect your DNA does not contain any animal products. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? --- Section Separator --- We will record information about your COVID-19 vaccination in our COVID Immunisation Register (CIR), including the batch number. If you need written confirmation of your vaccination, you can request a letter from the Ministry of Health. Getting proof of your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) COVID-19: About the Delta variant — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Vaccination side effects --- Section Separator --- For the best protection, it is important to get 2 doses of the vaccine. The standard gap between doses is now 3 weeks or more . Learn more about getting your second dose --- Section Separator --- Studies show that about 95% of people who have received both doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) Other vaccines we have agreed to purchase — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Book your COVID-19 vaccination Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres Getting your second dose Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Side effects Getting proof of your vaccination COVID-19 vaccine rollout groups
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, including myocarditis, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects — Ministry of Health (external link) You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. If you have concerns or feel unwell after your vaccination, speak with your doctor or other health professional, or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you are concerned about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) is a database of information about adverse reactions (side effects) to medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. CARM monitors this information to identify any issues to help with the safe use and prescribing of medicines. Reporting your side effects will contribute to the data being collected globally, and help identify patterns in New Zealand and any potential safety issues. COVID-19 vaccine: Report an adverse reaction (external link) Reported side effects in New Zealand — Ministry of Health (external link) The Ministry of Health has launched the Post Vaccine Symptom Check, a mobile-based survey that will help monitor reactions to the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand. Up to 10 percent of New Zealanders who receive a dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine will be randomly selected to participate in the survey. Ministry of Health launches mobile-based vaccine monitoring survey (external link) What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine Vaccine side effects and reactions — Ministry of Health (external link) Information about COVID-19 vaccine — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, including myocarditis, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects — Ministry of Health (external link) You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. If you have concerns or feel unwell after your vaccination, speak with your doctor or other health professional, or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you are concerned about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. --- Section Separator --- If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) is a database of information about adverse reactions (side effects) to medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. CARM monitors this information to identify any issues to help with the safe use and prescribing of medicines. Reporting your side effects will contribute to the data being collected globally, and help identify patterns in New Zealand and any potential safety issues. COVID-19 vaccine: Report an adverse reaction (external link) Reported side effects in New Zealand — Ministry of Health (external link) The Ministry of Health has launched the Post Vaccine Symptom Check, a mobile-based survey that will help monitor reactions to the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand. Up to 10 percent of New Zealanders who receive a dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine will be randomly selected to participate in the survey. Ministry of Health launches mobile-based vaccine monitoring survey (external link) --- Section Separator --- What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine Vaccine side effects and reactions — Ministry of Health (external link) Information about COVID-19 vaccine — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Book your COVID-19 vaccination Walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres Getting your second dose Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Side effects Getting proof of your vaccination COVID-19 vaccine rollout groups
Find out about mandatory vaccinations for workers at the border and in managed isolation, and workers in the education and health and disability sectors. How employers can help their workers get vaccinated and information on workplace vaccinations. Your rights as an employee when you get the COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Find out about mandatory vaccinations for workers at the border and in managed isolation, and workers in the education and health and disability sectors. How employers can help their workers get vaccinated and information on workplace vaccinations. Your rights as an employee when you get the COVID-19 vaccination.
Workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings are now required to be vaccinated against COVID-19. Find out who’s affected and what they need to do. Only staff and support people who are vaccinated can have contact with children and students from 1 January 2022. Anyone carrying out high-risk work in the health and disability sector must now be fully vaccinated by 1 December 2021. --- Section Separator --- Workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings are now required to be vaccinated against COVID-19. Find out who’s affected and what they need to do. Only staff and support people who are vaccinated can have contact with children and students from 1 January 2022. Anyone carrying out high-risk work in the health and disability sector must now be fully vaccinated by 1 December 2021.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work Mandatory vaccinations for workers Border worker vaccinations --- Section Separator --- On 1 May 2021, it became mandatory for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 outlines these requirements. On 14 July 2021, following an amendment to the Vaccinations Order, the rules for vaccination against COVID-19 was broadened to most border workers. Including airports and ports. The Vaccinations Order is a legally binding health instruction which requires certain groups of border workers to be vaccinated to undertake ‘certain work’. From 30 September, any newly employed workers need to have their first dose of COVID-19 vaccination before starting work in a role covered by the Vaccinations Order. They must have their second dose within 35 days of their start date. All workers who are required to be tested for COVID-19 on either a 7-day or 14-day schedule will now also be required to get vaccinated before they perform that work. The expanded Order applies to people working at: managed isolation and quarantine facilities (MIQFs) and managed isolation facilities (MIFs) airside area of affected airports and some other higher-risk work at airports affected ports accommodation services where specified aircrew members are self-isolating. It also includes people doing work: that involves handling affected items removed from ships, planes or MIQFs or MIFs, and where the job is for a company that is routinely engaged to provide services for a plane, ship, MIQF or MIF, and where the person ‘has contact with’ people who belong to different groups in the Order. Use this tool to find out if a worker must get vaccinated Privately employed border workers will now have had their first dose and are required to have their second within 35 days of their first dose but no later than 4 November. New workers starting must now have their first dose before starting work. This applies to government and private business employees. As a border worker you have priority access to vaccination. Booking online through Book My Vaccine is the quickest way to make your vaccination appointments. Book My Vaccine You can also book by phone by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . There are also some vaccination centres where you can walk-in or drive-through without needing to book an appointment. Check Healthpoint to see if there's a vaccination centre in your area that offers this service. COVID-19 Vaccination centres | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) When your employer or PCBU enters your details in the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR) the BWTR will send your details to your local district health board (DHB). They will then contact you about booking your vaccination appointments. DHBs will prioritise bookings for affected workers who are not yet vaccinated. Email: bordersectorvaccinations@health.govt.nz To prevent the virus coming into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting all of the people who work there. A ll border workers , including those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports , and all of those who are contracted to provide services in the border environment , are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19. Any border workers in roles affected by the Vaccinations Order must be vaccinated in order to continue with that work, unless they have an exemption or exception . The Order allows PCBUs to apply for a supply chain exemption for a named worker. The exemption came into force on 12 August 2021 . The Minister for COVID-19 Response decides if an exemption should be granted. Learn more about applying for a supply chain exemption | transport.govt.nz (external link) Guidance for PCBUs engaging with workers regarding vaccinations [PDF, 688 KB] COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Border worker testing | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- On 1 May 2021, it became mandatory for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 outlines these requirements. On 14 July 2021, following an amendment to the Vaccinations Order, the rules for vaccination against COVID-19 was broadened to most border workers. Including airports and ports. The Vaccinations Order is a legally binding health instruction which requires certain groups of border workers to be vaccinated to undertake ‘certain work’. From 30 September, any newly employed workers need to have their first dose of COVID-19 vaccination before starting work in a role covered by the Vaccinations Order. They must have their second dose within 35 days of their start date. --- Section Separator --- All workers who are required to be tested for COVID-19 on either a 7-day or 14-day schedule will now also be required to get vaccinated before they perform that work. The expanded Order applies to people working at: managed isolation and quarantine facilities (MIQFs) and managed isolation facilities (MIFs) airside area of affected airports and some other higher-risk work at airports affected ports accommodation services where specified aircrew members are self-isolating. It also includes people doing work: that involves handling affected items removed from ships, planes or MIQFs or MIFs, and where the job is for a company that is routinely engaged to provide services for a plane, ship, MIQF or MIF, and where the person ‘has contact with’ people who belong to different groups in the Order. Use this tool to find out if a worker must get vaccinated --- Section Separator --- Privately employed border workers will now have had their first dose and are required to have their second within 35 days of their first dose but no later than 4 November. New workers starting must now have their first dose before starting work. This applies to government and private business employees. --- Section Separator --- As a border worker you have priority access to vaccination. Booking online through Book My Vaccine is the quickest way to make your vaccination appointments. Book My Vaccine You can also book by phone by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . There are also some vaccination centres where you can walk-in or drive-through without needing to book an appointment. Check Healthpoint to see if there's a vaccination centre in your area that offers this service. COVID-19 Vaccination centres | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) When your employer or PCBU enters your details in the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR) the BWTR will send your details to your local district health board (DHB). They will then contact you about booking your vaccination appointments. DHBs will prioritise bookings for affected workers who are not yet vaccinated. Email: bordersectorvaccinations@health.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- To prevent the virus coming into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting all of the people who work there. A ll border workers , including those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports , and all of those who are contracted to provide services in the border environment , are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Any border workers in roles affected by the Vaccinations Order must be vaccinated in order to continue with that work, unless they have an exemption or exception . --- Section Separator --- The Order allows PCBUs to apply for a supply chain exemption for a named worker. The exemption came into force on 12 August 2021 . The Minister for COVID-19 Response decides if an exemption should be granted. Learn more about applying for a supply chain exemption | transport.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Guidance for PCBUs engaging with workers regarding vaccinations [PDF, 688 KB] COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Border worker testing | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mandatory vaccinations for workers Border worker vaccinations Education sector vaccinations Health and disability sector vaccinations Border worker vaccinations Education sector vaccinations Health and disability sector vaccinations Vaccine information for businesses Vaccine information for workers
Mandatory vaccinations for border and MIQ workers On 1 May 2021, the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 made it a requirement for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. From 15 July 2021, it also became a legal requirement for border workers in certain roles to be vaccinated. This is required by the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Amendment Order 2021. To find out if a worker is affected Answer the following questions. Your results will tell you if a worker must get vaccinated, when by, and how to book their vaccinations. --- Section Separator --- Border and MIQ worker vaccinations COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 – Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register — Ministry of Health (external link) Resources for the border sector — Ministry of Health (external link) Vaccines and the workplace — Employment New Zealand (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work Mandatory vaccinations for workers Education sector vaccinations --- Section Separator --- From 1 January 2022, schools and early learning services and providers will need to maintain a register, and ensure only vaccinated staff and support people have contact with children and students. They need to have their first dose by 15 November. This includes home-based educators, and all those support people in our schools and early learning services such as teacher-aides, administration and maintenance staff and contractors. Secondary schools and kura will also be required to keep a COVID-19 vaccination register for students. Students that do not produce evidence of vaccination will be considered unvaccinated. Those who are not fully vaccinated in the period leading up to 1 January 2022 will be required to undergo weekly COVID-19 testing. Work is continuing on whether mandatory vaccinations will be required in the tertiary education sector. A high rate of vaccinations will help to protect staff from getting sick and passing COVID-19 onto others. Workers at our MIQ and at airports and ports are already required to be vaccinated. Exemptions may be possible under some circumstances. Mandatory vaccination for 2 workforces (external link) --- Section Separator --- From 1 January 2022, schools and early learning services and providers will need to maintain a register, and ensure only vaccinated staff and support people have contact with children and students. They need to have their first dose by 15 November. This includes home-based educators, and all those support people in our schools and early learning services such as teacher-aides, administration and maintenance staff and contractors. Secondary schools and kura will also be required to keep a COVID-19 vaccination register for students. Students that do not produce evidence of vaccination will be considered unvaccinated. Those who are not fully vaccinated in the period leading up to 1 January 2022 will be required to undergo weekly COVID-19 testing. Work is continuing on whether mandatory vaccinations will be required in the tertiary education sector. A high rate of vaccinations will help to protect staff from getting sick and passing COVID-19 onto others. Workers at our MIQ and at airports and ports are already required to be vaccinated. Exemptions may be possible under some circumstances. --- Section Separator --- Mandatory vaccination for 2 workforces (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mandatory vaccinations for workers Border worker vaccinations Education sector vaccinations Health and disability sector vaccinations Border worker vaccinations Education sector vaccinations Health and disability sector vaccinations Vaccine information for businesses Vaccine information for workers
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work Mandatory vaccinations for workers Health and disability sector vaccinations --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 will be updated to require anyone conducting high-risk work in the health and disability sector to be fully vaccinated. The requirements include the following health and disability sector workers: regulated professions currently registered under the HPCA regulations non-regulated healthcare work, such as: aged residential care home and community support services kaupapa Māori health providers Pacific Health Providers nongovernment Organisations who provide health services. aged residential care home and community support services kaupapa Māori health providers Pacific Health Providers nongovernment Organisations who provide health services. roles undertaken by people who: are in frequent contact, face-to-face contact, or are in close proximity to healthcare workers providing a health service work where a health service is being provided do not necessarily provide a health service, but their role requires frequent contact/engagement with those providing health services and is considered tied to a role within a healthcare setting. are in frequent contact, face-to-face contact, or are in close proximity to healthcare workers providing a health service work where a health service is being provided do not necessarily provide a health service, but their role requires frequent contact/engagement with those providing health services and is considered tied to a role within a healthcare setting. All workers who are required by the Order to get vaccinated must receive their first dose of the vaccine by 30 October 2021, and be fully vaccinated by 1 December 2021. A high rate of vaccinations will help to protect staff from getting sick and passing COVID-19 onto others. Workers at our MIQ and at airports and ports are already required to be vaccinated. Exemptions may be possible under some circumstances. Mandatory vaccination for 2 workforces (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 will be updated to require anyone conducting high-risk work in the health and disability sector to be fully vaccinated. The requirements include the following health and disability sector workers: regulated professions currently registered under the HPCA regulations non-regulated healthcare work, such as: aged residential care home and community support services kaupapa Māori health providers Pacific Health Providers nongovernment Organisations who provide health services. aged residential care home and community support services kaupapa Māori health providers Pacific Health Providers nongovernment Organisations who provide health services. roles undertaken by people who: are in frequent contact, face-to-face contact, or are in close proximity to healthcare workers providing a health service work where a health service is being provided do not necessarily provide a health service, but their role requires frequent contact/engagement with those providing health services and is considered tied to a role within a healthcare setting. are in frequent contact, face-to-face contact, or are in close proximity to healthcare workers providing a health service work where a health service is being provided do not necessarily provide a health service, but their role requires frequent contact/engagement with those providing health services and is considered tied to a role within a healthcare setting. All workers who are required by the Order to get vaccinated must receive their first dose of the vaccine by 30 October 2021, and be fully vaccinated by 1 December 2021. A high rate of vaccinations will help to protect staff from getting sick and passing COVID-19 onto others. Workers at our MIQ and at airports and ports are already required to be vaccinated. Exemptions may be possible under some circumstances. --- Section Separator --- Mandatory vaccination for 2 workforces (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mandatory vaccinations for workers Border worker vaccinations Education sector vaccinations Health and disability sector vaccinations Border worker vaccinations Education sector vaccinations Health and disability sector vaccinations Vaccine information for businesses Vaccine information for workers
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work Vaccine information for businesses --- Section Separator --- A fully vaccinated workforce will help keep your workplace safe from COVID-19. You can help workers make an informed decision and encourage them and their whānau to get the COVID-19 vaccine by: allowing them time off to get the vaccine talking to them about their leave and pay entitlements if they need time off to go to their appointment or if they feel unwell after getting the vaccine talking to them about the safety of the vaccine, and how getting vaccinated will help create a safe and healthy workplace for everyone respecting their privacy listening to their concerns. Information from Employment.govt.nz on vaccines and the workplace (external link) Your workers may have questions about the vaccine. You can help them find out more by: directing them to official sources for accurate and up-to-date information, including: vaccine information on this website the Ministry of Health website (external link) Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) vaccine information on this website the Ministry of Health website (external link) Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) checking everyone can access the information if they need it. As part of the vaccine rollout, eligible workplaces will be able to provide vaccinations onsite. Not all workplaces will be able to offer COVID-19 vaccinations. Eligible workplaces will either: be a large workplace or employer — for example 1000+ employees and able to vaccinate several hundred staff per site or be a workplace that has high Māori, Pacific or ethnic populations and those who may find it harder to get a vaccination — for example, due to rural locations or shift work And will: have previously delivered a vaccine programme onsite and have an existing relationship with a vaccine provider and be able to provide staff to undertake specified roles and responsibilities, particularly around worker engagement. Find more information about workplace vaccinations | health.govt.nz (external link) Getting the COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary for most people in New Zealand. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations There may be religious or medical reasons why a person cannot be vaccinated. You cannot ask your worker to get vaccinated, unless they need to be vaccinated to perform a specific role in your business for health and safety reasons. You can ask employees if they have been vaccinated but they do not have to tell you if they have, or why they chose not to. You cannot discriminate against employees who choose not to get the vaccination. If your employees choose to tell you about their vaccination status, you cannot share this information with anyone without their permission. A person's vaccination status is personal information | employment.govt.nz (external link) The vaccine is one part of keeping everyone safe. Keep doing all the things you have been doing in your workplace to stop the spread of COVID-19. Encourage everyone to scan in, wash or sanitise their hands, and regularly clean and disinfect surfaces. Simple steps to slow the spread of the virus This toolkit contains information and resources to help workplaces, non-profit groups and other organisations to support COVID-19 vaccinations in their communities. The toolkit will help you to support the national vaccine and immunisation programme — and most importantly, ensure your people are protected from COVID-19. COVID-19 Vaccine Business and workplace toolkit (external link) --- Section Separator --- A fully vaccinated workforce will help keep your workplace safe from COVID-19. You can help workers make an informed decision and encourage them and their whānau to get the COVID-19 vaccine by: allowing them time off to get the vaccine talking to them about their leave and pay entitlements if they need time off to go to their appointment or if they feel unwell after getting the vaccine talking to them about the safety of the vaccine, and how getting vaccinated will help create a safe and healthy workplace for everyone respecting their privacy listening to their concerns. Information from Employment.govt.nz on vaccines and the workplace (external link) Your workers may have questions about the vaccine. You can help them find out more by: directing them to official sources for accurate and up-to-date information, including: vaccine information on this website the Ministry of Health website (external link) Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) vaccine information on this website the Ministry of Health website (external link) Karawhiua — information for whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities (external link) checking everyone can access the information if they need it. --- Section Separator --- As part of the vaccine rollout, eligible workplaces will be able to provide vaccinations onsite. Not all workplaces will be able to offer COVID-19 vaccinations. Eligible workplaces will either: be a large workplace or employer — for example 1000+ employees and able to vaccinate several hundred staff per site or be a workplace that has high Māori, Pacific or ethnic populations and those who may find it harder to get a vaccination — for example, due to rural locations or shift work And will: have previously delivered a vaccine programme onsite and have an existing relationship with a vaccine provider and be able to provide staff to undertake specified roles and responsibilities, particularly around worker engagement. Find more information about workplace vaccinations | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Getting the COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary for most people in New Zealand. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations There may be religious or medical reasons why a person cannot be vaccinated. You cannot ask your worker to get vaccinated, unless they need to be vaccinated to perform a specific role in your business for health and safety reasons. You can ask employees if they have been vaccinated but they do not have to tell you if they have, or why they chose not to. You cannot discriminate against employees who choose not to get the vaccination. If your employees choose to tell you about their vaccination status, you cannot share this information with anyone without their permission. A person's vaccination status is personal information | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The vaccine is one part of keeping everyone safe. Keep doing all the things you have been doing in your workplace to stop the spread of COVID-19. Encourage everyone to scan in, wash or sanitise their hands, and regularly clean and disinfect surfaces. Simple steps to slow the spread of the virus --- Section Separator --- This toolkit contains information and resources to help workplaces, non-profit groups and other organisations to support COVID-19 vaccinations in their communities. The toolkit will help you to support the national vaccine and immunisation programme — and most importantly, ensure your people are protected from COVID-19. COVID-19 Vaccine Business and workplace toolkit (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mandatory vaccinations for workers Vaccine information for businesses Vaccine information for workers
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work Vaccine information for workers --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is free and will be available to everyone in Aotearoa aged 12 and over. The vaccine helps protect you, your whānau and your workmates. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary for most people in New Zealand. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. If you need support to get vaccinated — for example, taking time off to get your vaccination — talk to your employer. Your employer cannot ask you to get a vaccine, unless there are health and safety reasons you need it for your job. If there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, then employers can decide that certain work must be done by vaccinated workers. To determine this, your employer will need to assess the COVID-19 exposure risk in consultation with you. If it is found that certain work can only be done by vaccinated workers, then your employer must allow you reasonable time to get vaccinated. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations If you have any medical concerns about getting the vaccine, talk to your doctor. Some workplaces may take part in workplace vaccinations as part of the vaccine rollout. If your employer is eligible, they will let you know when they will be offering employee vaccinations. You may be able to get your vaccination through your workplace. Your employer may ask you if you have been vaccinated, but you do not have to share your vaccination status with your employer. Your employer cannot discriminate against you if you choose not to get vaccinated. If you do tell your employer about your vaccination status, they must keep this information private. Once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. It is still important to keep doing all the things you have been doing to stop the spread of COVID-19. Scan in, wash or sanitise your hands, and regularly clean and disinfect surfaces. Simple steps to slow the spread of the virus --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is free and will be available to everyone in Aotearoa aged 12 and over. The vaccine helps protect you, your whānau and your workmates. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine is voluntary for most people in New Zealand. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. If you need support to get vaccinated — for example, taking time off to get your vaccination — talk to your employer. --- Section Separator --- Your employer cannot ask you to get a vaccine, unless there are health and safety reasons you need it for your job. If there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, then employers can decide that certain work must be done by vaccinated workers. To determine this, your employer will need to assess the COVID-19 exposure risk in consultation with you. If it is found that certain work can only be done by vaccinated workers, then your employer must allow you reasonable time to get vaccinated. Anyone who works in high-risk border or managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) settings legally must be vaccinated. Border and MIQ worker vaccinations If you have any medical concerns about getting the vaccine, talk to your doctor. Some workplaces may take part in workplace vaccinations as part of the vaccine rollout. If your employer is eligible, they will let you know when they will be offering employee vaccinations. You may be able to get your vaccination through your workplace. --- Section Separator --- Your employer may ask you if you have been vaccinated, but you do not have to share your vaccination status with your employer. Your employer cannot discriminate against you if you choose not to get vaccinated. If you do tell your employer about your vaccination status, they must keep this information private. --- Section Separator --- Once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. It is still important to keep doing all the things you have been doing to stop the spread of COVID-19. Scan in, wash or sanitise your hands, and regularly clean and disinfect surfaces. Simple steps to slow the spread of the virus --- Section Separator --- Mandatory vaccinations for workers Vaccine information for businesses Vaccine information for workers
Information about COVID-19, including what it is, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. How to get medical advice, health services and emergency services at the different Alert Levels. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Here's how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. How to recognise COVID-19 misinformation and scams. Download and print these resources to remind everyone to practise good hygiene and keep track of where they've been. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. You can also contact us directly for help with your enquiries. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including what it is, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. How to get medical advice, health services and emergency services at the different Alert Levels. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Here's how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. How to recognise COVID-19 misinformation and scams. Download and print these resources to remind everyone to practise good hygiene and keep track of where they've been. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. You can also contact us directly for help with your enquiries.
Home Health and wellbeing About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will tell you whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting. If you are outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Call your doctor or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. What is COVID-19 These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. Keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer app. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID on the Ministry of Health website. Long COVID (external link) --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will tell you whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting. If you are outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Call your doctor or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. What is COVID-19 These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. Keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID on the Ministry of Health website. Long COVID (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. When you leave the house, you should maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices at all Alert Levels. You can work with your doctor or specialist if you need help understanding your level of risk and how best to stay healthy. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) Getting your vaccination is an important step you can take to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Vaccines help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and reduce your chances of getting seriously ill or dying if you do get COVID-19. Even if you are vaccinated, you should still take precautions, including limiting interactions with others, wearing a face covering in public, and staying home where possible. Book your COVID-19 vaccination If you have any concerns about how you will react to the vaccine talk to your doctor. Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher hypertension that is not well controlled diabetes that is not well controlled chronic kidney disease liver disease. Many conditions and treatments can weaken a person's immune system, including: having chemotherapy or radiotherapy bone marrow or organ transplantation some blood cancers immune deficiencies including HIV infection immunity weakening medications such as high-dose corticosteroids and disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, especially those who have underlying medical conditions, are more at risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Anyone can call Age Concern New Zealand on 0800 65 2105 to get advice and support. International evidence has shown that aged care facilities are prone to the quick spread of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more at risk of illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying medical conditions. International research has shown COVID-19 has a larger impact on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19, especially when there is: a higher rate of chronic medical conditions crowded housing difficulty accessing health care. People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your doctor or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking — Ministry of Health (external link) We recommend people who are pregnant take extra precautions, as evidence shows they may be at greater risk of poor outcomes. If you are pregnant and work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can: discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working agree on leave from work and pay arrangements with your employer, if you cannot work safely at your workplace or from home. These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) Find more information on maternity care at the different Alert Levels on the Ministry of Health website. Information for people who are pregnant, and those who have recently given birth (external link) There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support for individuals and whānau At Alert Level 1, there is freedom to move around, but it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about a risk assessment in your workplace. It will look at what the risk is for you and how to reduce it. At Alert Level 2, we need to reduce our contact with others. There is some freedom to move around, but you should follow public health measures. If you are an at-risk person, you will need to take extra precautions when doing this. Only connect with small groups of close family, whānau, and friends — those in or close to your bubble. Try not to interact with too many people outside of your own social circle as it could make contact tracing harder, if needed. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. We recommend you wear a face covering whenever you are leaving your home, especially if it is difficult to keep a 2 metres away from others. You must wear a face covering at some places. When you must wear a face covering Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. At Alert Level 3 we need to restrict our contact with others. Y ou must stay within your household bubble whenever you are not at work or school. We recommend people at higher risk stay at home other than for essential personal movement. This can include things such as accessing essential services like healthcare. Stay home and ask others to pick up supplies for you — ask them to leave these at the door. Stay at least 2 metres away from people you do not know, especially if they are unwell. You must wear a face covering when accessing a business or service at Alert Level 3. We encourage you to wear one whenever you leave your home. Limit interactions with others — at Alert Level 3 we can expand our bubbles to connect with close whānau and friends, but it's important to keep it exclusive. You can get essential in-home care at Alert Level 3, but services will change to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your doctor if you need further help understanding your level of risk. At Alert Level 4, you need to stay home. Everyone must stay in their bubble. You can leave your home for essential personal movement, such as accessing healthcare or going to the supermarket. Stay home and ask others to pick up supplies for you — ask them to leave these at the door. Stay at least 2 metres away from people, especially if they are unwell. You must wear a face covering when accessing a business or service at Alert Level 4. We encourage you to wear one whenever you leave your home. Talk to your doctor if you have any concerns. The Student Volunteer Army Grocery Delivery Service is available nationwide to people who are self-isolating or who have no other way to access food. To order: visit shop.sva.org.nz (external link) call 09 801 2122 if you are in Auckland call 0800 005 902 for the rest of New Zealand. Access to food or essential items --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. When you leave the house, you should maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices at all Alert Levels. You can work with your doctor or specialist if you need help understanding your level of risk and how best to stay healthy. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) Getting your vaccination is an important step you can take to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Vaccines help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and reduce your chances of getting seriously ill or dying if you do get COVID-19. Even if you are vaccinated, you should still take precautions, including limiting interactions with others, wearing a face covering in public, and staying home where possible. Book your COVID-19 vaccination If you have any concerns about how you will react to the vaccine talk to your doctor. --- Section Separator --- Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher hypertension that is not well controlled diabetes that is not well controlled chronic kidney disease liver disease. Many conditions and treatments can weaken a person's immune system, including: having chemotherapy or radiotherapy bone marrow or organ transplantation some blood cancers immune deficiencies including HIV infection immunity weakening medications such as high-dose corticosteroids and disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, especially those who have underlying medical conditions, are more at risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Anyone can call Age Concern New Zealand on 0800 65 2105 to get advice and support. International evidence has shown that aged care facilities are prone to the quick spread of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more at risk of illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying medical conditions. International research has shown COVID-19 has a larger impact on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19, especially when there is: a higher rate of chronic medical conditions crowded housing difficulty accessing health care. People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your doctor or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking — Ministry of Health (external link) We recommend people who are pregnant take extra precautions, as evidence shows they may be at greater risk of poor outcomes. If you are pregnant and work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can: discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working agree on leave from work and pay arrangements with your employer, if you cannot work safely at your workplace or from home. These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) Find more information on maternity care at the different Alert Levels on the Ministry of Health website. Information for people who are pregnant, and those who have recently given birth (external link) --- Section Separator --- There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support for individuals and whānau --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is freedom to move around, but it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about a risk assessment in your workplace. It will look at what the risk is for you and how to reduce it. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, we need to reduce our contact with others. There is some freedom to move around, but you should follow public health measures. If you are an at-risk person, you will need to take extra precautions when doing this. Only connect with small groups of close family, whānau, and friends — those in or close to your bubble. Try not to interact with too many people outside of your own social circle as it could make contact tracing harder, if needed. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. We recommend you wear a face covering whenever you are leaving your home, especially if it is difficult to keep a 2 metres away from others. You must wear a face covering at some places. When you must wear a face covering Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 we need to restrict our contact with others. Y ou must stay within your household bubble whenever you are not at work or school. We recommend people at higher risk stay at home other than for essential personal movement. This can include things such as accessing essential services like healthcare. Stay home and ask others to pick up supplies for you — ask them to leave these at the door. Stay at least 2 metres away from people you do not know, especially if they are unwell. You must wear a face covering when accessing a business or service at Alert Level 3. We encourage you to wear one whenever you leave your home. Limit interactions with others — at Alert Level 3 we can expand our bubbles to connect with close whānau and friends, but it's important to keep it exclusive. You can get essential in-home care at Alert Level 3, but services will change to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your doctor if you need further help understanding your level of risk. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you need to stay home. Everyone must stay in their bubble. You can leave your home for essential personal movement, such as accessing healthcare or going to the supermarket. Stay home and ask others to pick up supplies for you — ask them to leave these at the door. Stay at least 2 metres away from people, especially if they are unwell. You must wear a face covering when accessing a business or service at Alert Level 4. We encourage you to wear one whenever you leave your home. Talk to your doctor if you have any concerns. The Student Volunteer Army Grocery Delivery Service is available nationwide to people who are self-isolating or who have no other way to access food. To order: visit shop.sva.org.nz (external link) call 09 801 2122 if you are in Auckland call 0800 005 902 for the rest of New Zealand. Access to food or essential items --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing About COVID-19 What is COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are from a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations, such as the Delta variant, can spread more easily than the original virus and cause more severe disease. It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current variants of concern are: Alpha – first found in the United Kingdom Beta – first found in South Africa Gamma – first found in Brazil Delta – first found in India. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: About the Delta variant (external link) COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. What is COVID-19 These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. Keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer app. The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 Even though we have had relatively few cases, New Zealand is up-to-date in our knowledge and use of appropriate treatments. We have good processes to assess emerging and new treatments, and a fast and proven approval process when we decide on what to use. COVID-19 infections cause two major issues. A viral attack on the body and the harm that causes. In some cases the virus also triggers an immune reaction which can also cause harm. Studies for new treatments now cover both these issues and concentrate on three areas. Antiviral drugs limiting the ability of the virus to thrive in the body. Medicines that calm the immune system over-reaction prompted in some patients. Antibody treatments that help the body fight the virus. The Ministry of Health has updates on pharmaceutical treatments for COVID-19. COVID-19 Science Updates | health.govt.nz (external link) Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy for dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic is a sustained approach to keep it out, find it, and stamp it out. We do this through: controlling entry at the border with managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) for 14 days disease surveillance, for example testing anyone with symptoms physical distancing and hygiene measures testing for and tracing all potential cases isolating cases and their contacts broader public health controls depending on the Alert Level we are in. Find out more about New Zealand’s elimination strategy | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccination is the next step in protecting people from COVID-19. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: symptomatic people in the community asymptomatic testing of workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are from a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations, such as the Delta variant, can spread more easily than the original virus and cause more severe disease. --- Section Separator --- It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current variants of concern are: Alpha – first found in the United Kingdom Beta – first found in South Africa Gamma – first found in Brazil Delta – first found in India. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: About the Delta variant (external link) COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. What is COVID-19 These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. Keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Even though we have had relatively few cases, New Zealand is up-to-date in our knowledge and use of appropriate treatments. We have good processes to assess emerging and new treatments, and a fast and proven approval process when we decide on what to use. COVID-19 infections cause two major issues. A viral attack on the body and the harm that causes. In some cases the virus also triggers an immune reaction which can also cause harm. Studies for new treatments now cover both these issues and concentrate on three areas. Antiviral drugs limiting the ability of the virus to thrive in the body. Medicines that calm the immune system over-reaction prompted in some patients. Antibody treatments that help the body fight the virus. The Ministry of Health has updates on pharmaceutical treatments for COVID-19. COVID-19 Science Updates | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy for dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic is a sustained approach to keep it out, find it, and stamp it out. We do this through: controlling entry at the border with managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) for 14 days disease surveillance, for example testing anyone with symptoms physical distancing and hygiene measures testing for and tracing all potential cases isolating cases and their contacts broader public health controls depending on the Alert Level we are in. Find out more about New Zealand’s elimination strategy | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccination is the next step in protecting people from COVID-19. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: symptomatic people in the community asymptomatic testing of workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19
Information on contact tracing, locations of interest, and how the NZ COVID Tracer app works. Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. Advice for people who are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. Including what close, casual plus, and casual contacts need to do. Help protect Aotearoa by encouraging staff and visitors to scan in every time they visit your business. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, your business and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. Use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet to keep track of where you have been if you do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, locations of interest, and how the NZ COVID Tracer app works. Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. Advice for people who are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. Including what close, casual plus, and casual contacts need to do. Help protect Aotearoa by encouraging staff and visitors to scan in every time they visit your business. The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, your business and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. Use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet to keep track of where you have been if you do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app.
Home Health and wellbeing Contact tracing Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you have been near or were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. Your level of exposure will depend on what actions you need to take. This will often be staying home and getting a test. The day you are exposed is day 0. A negative test means you do not have COVID-19. A positive test means you do have COVID-19. Public Health will contact you. Get tested for COVID-19 There are 3 types of 'contacts': Close Contacts Casual Plus Contacts Casual Contacts. The Ministry of Health will have advice for all contacts on what they need to do. Anyone who was at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19 is considered a contact. The Ministry of Health will have locations of interest and advice for people who have been at those locations. It is important that you follow the health advice and get a test as needed. Contact tracing locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) You will need to check: the location and address details the date and relevant times instructions on what to do. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 if you have been at a location of interest or have symptoms. If you have difficulty breathing, call an ambulance on 111. Close Contacts are at higher risk of getting COVID-19. Their contact happened when the person with COVID-19 was infectious. Close Contacts may live, work or have been at a location of interest at the same time as someone with COVID-19. Stay home. Isolate from others in your house if you can. You can only go out for a COVID-19 test. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 Get a test for COVID-19 straight away, 5 days after you were exposed, and 12 days after you were exposed. Monitor for symptoms for 14 days. The day you were exposed is day 0. Close Contacts fact sheet [PDF, 333 KB] Casual Plus Contacts are people who were at a location of interest at the same time and were near someone infectious with COVID-19. Casual Plus Contacts are at lower risk than Close Contacts, but the risk for transmission is still high. Stay home. Isolate from others in your house for 5 days, if you can. Day 0 is the day you were at the location of interest. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to get a test straight away. Get another test on day 5 after you were at the location of interest. If you receive a negative day 5 test, you can leave the house. Monitor for symptoms for 14 days. If you develop symptoms, stay home and get tested again. Casual Plus Contacts fact sheet [PDF, 295 KB] Casual Contacts are people who have been at a location of interest at the same time as someone infectious with COVID-19. But they may not have been near the infectious person. Casual Contacts are at lower risk of getting sick with COVID-19. Watch for symptoms for 14 days. If you do get symptoms, call Healthline, get a test, and stay home. You will need to stay home until you get a negative result and it has been 24 hours since you have had any symptoms. Casual Contacts fact sheet [PDF, 107 KB] If you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19, you will need to watch for symptoms for 14 days after you were last near that person. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Full list of COVID-19 symptoms Secondary contacts are household members or someone that has had significant contact with someone who has been at a location of interest. If you live with someone who has been at a location of interest at the specified dates and times, you legally must: isolate at your home or accommodation continue to isolate until the person who was at a location of interest gets a negative test result at day 5. If you have not had any contact with the person who was at the location of interest, you can stop isolating as soon as they have a negative result. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are a secondary contact, you do not need to get a COVID-19 test, unless you are asked to by public health officials or you develop COVID-19 symptoms. If you do get symptoms: stay home call Healthline get tested. You will need to continue staying at home until you get a negative result and it has been 24 hours since you have had any symptoms. You will need to self-isolate while you wait for a negative result from a COVID-19 test. You may also be told to isolate if you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. If you are told to self-isolate by a health official, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Do not go to work or school. Limit contact with others you live with — for example, sleep by yourself and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. Do not share items with others in your household — for example, dishes, toothbrushes, and towels. Do your own laundry. Do not have visitors in your home. Try not to leave your house if you have symptoms. If you need to, stay at least 2 metres away from others. We recommend you wear a face covering. If you need food, prescriptions or essential items get friends or family to leave them on your doorstep, or get supplies delivered. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) Essential personal care services, such as toileting, washing and feeding, can continue. If you are identified as a contact of a case, carers must use good hand hygiene and physical distancing of 2 metres when possible. If this is not possible, they must wear personal protection equipment like disposable gloves and masks. If you are unable to self-isolate at home, your local public health official can help determine where you are best able to self-isolate safely. This may be in a managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) facility. These facilities are in hotels in different locations across New Zealand. You can find more information and advice about close and casual contacts on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you have been near or were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. Your level of exposure will depend on what actions you need to take. This will often be staying home and getting a test. The day you are exposed is day 0. A negative test means you do not have COVID-19. A positive test means you do have COVID-19. Public Health will contact you. Get tested for COVID-19 There are 3 types of 'contacts': Close Contacts Casual Plus Contacts Casual Contacts. The Ministry of Health will have advice for all contacts on what they need to do. --- Section Separator --- Anyone who was at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19 is considered a contact. The Ministry of Health will have locations of interest and advice for people who have been at those locations. It is important that you follow the health advice and get a test as needed. Contact tracing locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) You will need to check: the location and address details the date and relevant times instructions on what to do. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 if you have been at a location of interest or have symptoms. If you have difficulty breathing, call an ambulance on 111. --- Section Separator --- Close Contacts are at higher risk of getting COVID-19. Their contact happened when the person with COVID-19 was infectious. Close Contacts may live, work or have been at a location of interest at the same time as someone with COVID-19. Stay home. Isolate from others in your house if you can. You can only go out for a COVID-19 test. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 Get a test for COVID-19 straight away, 5 days after you were exposed, and 12 days after you were exposed. Monitor for symptoms for 14 days. The day you were exposed is day 0. Close Contacts fact sheet [PDF, 333 KB] --- Section Separator --- Casual Plus Contacts are people who were at a location of interest at the same time and were near someone infectious with COVID-19. Casual Plus Contacts are at lower risk than Close Contacts, but the risk for transmission is still high. Stay home. Isolate from others in your house for 5 days, if you can. Day 0 is the day you were at the location of interest. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to get a test straight away. Get another test on day 5 after you were at the location of interest. If you receive a negative day 5 test, you can leave the house. Monitor for symptoms for 14 days. If you develop symptoms, stay home and get tested again. Casual Plus Contacts fact sheet [PDF, 295 KB] --- Section Separator --- Casual Contacts are people who have been at a location of interest at the same time as someone infectious with COVID-19. But they may not have been near the infectious person. Casual Contacts are at lower risk of getting sick with COVID-19. Watch for symptoms for 14 days. If you do get symptoms, call Healthline, get a test, and stay home. You will need to stay home until you get a negative result and it has been 24 hours since you have had any symptoms. Casual Contacts fact sheet [PDF, 107 KB] --- Section Separator --- If you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19, you will need to watch for symptoms for 14 days after you were last near that person. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Full list of COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Secondary contacts are household members or someone that has had significant contact with someone who has been at a location of interest. If you live with someone who has been at a location of interest at the specified dates and times, you legally must: isolate at your home or accommodation continue to isolate until the person who was at a location of interest gets a negative test result at day 5. If you have not had any contact with the person who was at the location of interest, you can stop isolating as soon as they have a negative result. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are a secondary contact, you do not need to get a COVID-19 test, unless you are asked to by public health officials or you develop COVID-19 symptoms. If you do get symptoms: stay home call Healthline get tested. You will need to continue staying at home until you get a negative result and it has been 24 hours since you have had any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- You will need to self-isolate while you wait for a negative result from a COVID-19 test. You may also be told to isolate if you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. If you are told to self-isolate by a health official, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Do not go to work or school. Limit contact with others you live with — for example, sleep by yourself and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. Do not share items with others in your household — for example, dishes, toothbrushes, and towels. Do your own laundry. Do not have visitors in your home. Try not to leave your house if you have symptoms. If you need to, stay at least 2 metres away from others. We recommend you wear a face covering. If you need food, prescriptions or essential items get friends or family to leave them on your doorstep, or get supplies delivered. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) Essential personal care services, such as toileting, washing and feeding, can continue. If you are identified as a contact of a case, carers must use good hand hygiene and physical distancing of 2 metres when possible. If this is not possible, they must wear personal protection equipment like disposable gloves and masks. If you are unable to self-isolate at home, your local public health official can help determine where you are best able to self-isolate safely. This may be in a managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) facility. These facilities are in hotels in different locations across New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- You can find more information and advice about close and casual contacts on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Locations of interest Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 Record keeping and contact tracing NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet
Home Health and wellbeing Contact tracing How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is contact tracing. More about contact tracing — Ministry of Health website (external link) A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. If you are identified as a contact and use the NZ COVID Tracer app, you may get a notification that will provide advice and more information. The Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit may also contact you. Advice for people who are a contact of someone who has COVID-19 Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. Depending on the circumstances, you are considered a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand — Ministry of Health website (external link) The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a COVID-19 test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. The person with COVID-19 is interviewed along with the people they live and work with. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes. If they have, this gives us all the information needed to: start finding the source of a cluster or community transmission find anyone else who has had exposure to the virus. It helps if they have also taken notes for those times when the QR code was not available. If they have not used the app, there is a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down considerably, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. If the person was using the app and scanning QR codes, we can be certain of where they were at exact times. An alert can be sent via the app, warning others of the risk. If you have scanned in somewhere that someone with COVID-19 has been at the same time, you will see a yellow alert on the app dashboard. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, and it identifies you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you will see an orange alert on the dashboard. Find out more about the different NZ COVID Tracer alerts you can get — Ministry of Health website (external link) If an alert does go out, anyone who has been using the app will get information telling them they may have had exposure to COVID-19. This will include information on what you should do next to protect yourself, your whānau and the community. People who do not have the app will not be able to receive the alerts. That means there may be a delay before they find out if there is a threat of the virus in their community. You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been If you own or run a business: display QR code posters have an alternative record keeping system for people who do not use the app . How contact tracing keeps us safe Golden rules of contact tracing --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is contact tracing. More about contact tracing — Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. If you are identified as a contact and use the NZ COVID Tracer app, you may get a notification that will provide advice and more information. The Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit may also contact you. Advice for people who are a contact of someone who has COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. Depending on the circumstances, you are considered a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand — Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a COVID-19 test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. The person with COVID-19 is interviewed along with the people they live and work with. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes. If they have, this gives us all the information needed to: start finding the source of a cluster or community transmission find anyone else who has had exposure to the virus. It helps if they have also taken notes for those times when the QR code was not available. If they have not used the app, there is a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down considerably, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. If the person was using the app and scanning QR codes, we can be certain of where they were at exact times. An alert can be sent via the app, warning others of the risk. If you have scanned in somewhere that someone with COVID-19 has been at the same time, you will see a yellow alert on the app dashboard. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, and it identifies you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you will see an orange alert on the dashboard. Find out more about the different NZ COVID Tracer alerts you can get — Ministry of Health website (external link) If an alert does go out, anyone who has been using the app will get information telling them they may have had exposure to COVID-19. This will include information on what you should do next to protect yourself, your whānau and the community. People who do not have the app will not be able to receive the alerts. That means there may be a delay before they find out if there is a threat of the virus in their community. --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been If you own or run a business: display QR code posters have an alternative record keeping system for people who do not use the app . --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing keeps us safe Golden rules of contact tracing --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Locations of interest Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 Record keeping and contact tracing NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet
Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. You may be interested in List of locations of interest What is a Section 70 If your business is a location of interest Map of locations of interest Record your location of interest visit online Locations of interest in Australia --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 has visited. You are a contact if you have been at a location of interest at the specified time. Check the locations of interest and follow the health advice of the Ministry of Health. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have been at any location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately isolate at your home or accommodation and either: call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and isolating, or record your visit to a location of interest online. Record your visit online (external link) If you record your visit online, you do not need to call Healthline. Contact tracers will call or email you and let you know what you need to do. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you live with someone who has been at a location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately: isolate at your home or accommodation continue isolating until the person who was at a location of interest gets a negative test result at day 5. If you have not had any contact with the person who was at the location of interest, you can stop isolating as soon as they have a negative result. Members of the household who were not at a location of interest can only leave home to exercise. They can exercise while waiting for the results of their test if they keep 2 metres apart from others. People in the household are not permitted to go to the supermarket or visit other essential services. We encourage you to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to drop off groceries and other essential supplies to you. If you work in a managed isolation or quarantine facility, or you provide an essential health service, you can leave home to go to work earlier than day 5. You must meet other criteria. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 gives special powers to a medical officer of health to prevent the outbreak or spread of any infectious disease. A Section 70 order is issued to make sure you understand it is very important that you follow the advice given by public health units. A Section 70 order allows a medical officer of health to require those in the order to: meet public health requirements undergo testing isolate until they get a test result. People must follow the order immediately. Find out more about Section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you've been in Australia, check the locations of interest for the states or territories you are in. ACT (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has guidance to support New Zealand businesses that have been identified as a location of interest after a visit by a confirmed or probable COVID-19 case. In most cases, a public health official will call and talk you through what this means for your business. However, there may be some occasions, for example outside business hours, when it may not be possible to contact you immediately. Guidance for businesses | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Health and wellbeing Contact tracing NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you are ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you want a booklet and cannot print your own. If you are an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. --- Section Separator --- Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you are ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you want a booklet and cannot print your own. If you are an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. --- Section Separator --- Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Locations of interest Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 Record keeping and contact tracing NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 testing Get tested for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- All staff, contractors and volunteers who work in schools and kura in Alert Level 3 areas must return a negative COVID-19 test result before they can return to working on site. People who are already back at work in early learning centres in Auckland and other Alert Level 3 areas will be required to return a negative COVID-19 result by 26 October. People who have not yet returned to work in early childcare education will be required to return a negative COViD-19 result before physically returning to their service. Every Northlander needs to stay home, get tested as soon as possible if they have symptoms, and continue to check the Ministry of Health website for updated locations of interest. Northland COVID-19 Community Testing Centres | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) A positive wastewater result has been detected in Te Awamutu. Anyone who has symptoms, have family or household members who have symptoms, or travels in and out of the area regularly for work, are asked to get tested as soon as possible Anyone who has COVID-19 symptoms in the Waikato area is asked to please get tested, and isolate until you receive your result. Waikato testing centres | waikatodhb.health.nz (external link) If you live in one of these Auckland suburbs you are encouraged to get a test, even if you do not currently have symptoms: Māngere, Favona, Manurewa, Clover Park, Mount Wellington/Sylvia Park, Henderson, Papakura, and Red Beach. This is to help rule out undetected community transmission. Auckland testing locations — Auckland Regional Public Health Service (external link) Check the locations of interest on the Ministry of Health website and follow the instructions on what to do. Locations of interest in New Zealand — health.govt.nz (external link) If you have been at any location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately: isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and isolating. By calling Healthline, people who have been at locations of interest are logged into the contact tracing system. This means you can get your test results back faster. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need to get a COVID-19 test, unless you are asked to by public health officials or you develop COVID-19 symptoms. Most workers who need to cross Alert Level boundaries must get tested. Testing of workers when crossing Alert Level boundaries Most people aged 12 and over need to get a test before permitted personal travel from the Alert Level 3 area to the Alert Level 2 area. You do not need a test when travelling out of the Alert Level 2 area. There is an exception for people who travel into Auckland for a medical appointment (including vaccinations), and then leave to return home. They do not need a test when leaving Auckland. Getting tested when crossing the boundary Unvaccinated employees at schools in Alert Level 3 areas will need to be tested weekly through to 1 January 2022. If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. When you go for a test, wear a face covering, scan in using the QR code on site, and if possible take your NHI number with you. This is likely to speed up the process. You can find your NHI number on a hospital letter, a prescription or prescription receipt. The Ministry of Health has also set up a new 0800 number that you can call to find out: 0800 855 066 . If you are told to get a test, COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This is regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not have to pay for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that you can get your test results. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it is helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by your doctor or Healthline that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not have to pay for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. If you need to get a test for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There is more than one way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get a test, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they are testing. Assessment and testing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) When you get a test, your health professional will tell you how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If a result is positive, you will hear back within 48 hours. Negative tests can take a bit longer to return. Once they are completed, either a community health professional or your doctor will let you know. If you have not received your result after 5 days, please contact your doctor or the testing centre. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will tell you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) Financial support for individuals and wh ānau Staying at home if you are sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you are feeling unwell, it is critical you stay at home and recover. If you get a COVID-19 test, your health professional will tell you whether you need to self-isolate. If they tell you to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) In New Zealand there are 3 types of tests for COVID-19: a swab of the back of your nose — this is often called a nasopharyngeal test, or PCR test saliva testing — this testing is available for border workers and workers crossing an Alert Level boundary rapid antigen test — will be used in testing pilots at Middlemore, Auckland City and North Shore Hospitals, and for people taking part in a self-isolation pilot when they arrive in New Zealand. Government to pilot antigen testing with private sector Even if you have had your vaccination, you should still get tested for COVID-19 if you develop symptoms or if you are subject to regular testing. The vaccine is highly effective if people have both doses. Studies have shown that 95% of people who received both doses of the vaccine were protected against getting seriously ill. If you do get COVID-19, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill or spread the virus to others. Research is still ongoing to determine whether a vaccinated person can still pass the virus to someone else. So we must assume there is still risk of transmission. The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border| health.govt.nz (external link) Some countries need travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test The Ministry of Health publishes data on: current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics source of COVID-19 cases testing for COVID-19. This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including at-risk communities or groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- All staff, contractors and volunteers who work in schools and kura in Alert Level 3 areas must return a negative COVID-19 test result before they can return to working on site. People who are already back at work in early learning centres in Auckland and other Alert Level 3 areas will be required to return a negative COVID-19 result by 26 October. People who have not yet returned to work in early childcare education will be required to return a negative COViD-19 result before physically returning to their service. Every Northlander needs to stay home, get tested as soon as possible if they have symptoms, and continue to check the Ministry of Health website for updated locations of interest. Northland COVID-19 Community Testing Centres | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) A positive wastewater result has been detected in Te Awamutu. Anyone who has symptoms, have family or household members who have symptoms, or travels in and out of the area regularly for work, are asked to get tested as soon as possible Anyone who has COVID-19 symptoms in the Waikato area is asked to please get tested, and isolate until you receive your result. Waikato testing centres | waikatodhb.health.nz (external link) If you live in one of these Auckland suburbs you are encouraged to get a test, even if you do not currently have symptoms: Māngere, Favona, Manurewa, Clover Park, Mount Wellington/Sylvia Park, Henderson, Papakura, and Red Beach. This is to help rule out undetected community transmission. Auckland testing locations — Auckland Regional Public Health Service (external link) --- Section Separator --- Check the locations of interest on the Ministry of Health website and follow the instructions on what to do. Locations of interest in New Zealand — health.govt.nz (external link) If you have been at any location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately: isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and isolating. By calling Healthline, people who have been at locations of interest are logged into the contact tracing system. This means you can get your test results back faster. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need to get a COVID-19 test, unless you are asked to by public health officials or you develop COVID-19 symptoms. Most workers who need to cross Alert Level boundaries must get tested. Testing of workers when crossing Alert Level boundaries Most people aged 12 and over need to get a test before permitted personal travel from the Alert Level 3 area to the Alert Level 2 area. You do not need a test when travelling out of the Alert Level 2 area. There is an exception for people who travel into Auckland for a medical appointment (including vaccinations), and then leave to return home. They do not need a test when leaving Auckland. Getting tested when crossing the boundary Unvaccinated employees at schools in Alert Level 3 areas will need to be tested weekly through to 1 January 2022. --- Section Separator --- If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) --- Section Separator --- Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. When you go for a test, wear a face covering, scan in using the QR code on site, and if possible take your NHI number with you. This is likely to speed up the process. You can find your NHI number on a hospital letter, a prescription or prescription receipt. The Ministry of Health has also set up a new 0800 number that you can call to find out: 0800 855 066 . If you are told to get a test, COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This is regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not have to pay for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that you can get your test results. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it is helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by your doctor or Healthline that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not have to pay for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- If you need to get a test for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There is more than one way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get a test, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they are testing. Assessment and testing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- When you get a test, your health professional will tell you how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If a result is positive, you will hear back within 48 hours. Negative tests can take a bit longer to return. Once they are completed, either a community health professional or your doctor will let you know. If you have not received your result after 5 days, please contact your doctor or the testing centre. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will tell you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) Financial support for individuals and wh ānau --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you are sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you are feeling unwell, it is critical you stay at home and recover. If you get a COVID-19 test, your health professional will tell you whether you need to self-isolate. If they tell you to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Guidance on self-isolation at home (external link) --- Section Separator --- In New Zealand there are 3 types of tests for COVID-19: a swab of the back of your nose — this is often called a nasopharyngeal test, or PCR test saliva testing — this testing is available for border workers and workers crossing an Alert Level boundary rapid antigen test — will be used in testing pilots at Middlemore, Auckland City and North Shore Hospitals, and for people taking part in a self-isolation pilot when they arrive in New Zealand. Government to pilot antigen testing with private sector --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had your vaccination, you should still get tested for COVID-19 if you develop symptoms or if you are subject to regular testing. The vaccine is highly effective if people have both doses. Studies have shown that 95% of people who received both doses of the vaccine were protected against getting seriously ill. If you do get COVID-19, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill or spread the virus to others. Research is still ongoing to determine whether a vaccinated person can still pass the virus to someone else. So we must assume there is still risk of transmission. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border| health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some countries need travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes data on: current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics source of COVID-19 cases testing for COVID-19. This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including at-risk communities or groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get tested for COVID-19 Community Testing Centres If you test positive for COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing How to access healthcare and emergency services --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. If you are concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing call Plunketline on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Emergency services will operate at all Alert Levels. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face covering. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. Information about what to do in an emergency At all Alert Levels healthcare facilities and businesses will take precautions against the risk of COVID-19 transmission. These can include: risk screening on arrival contact tracing providing services over the phone or online if you have any symptoms asking you to wear a face covering while visiting the healthcare facility. When accessing healthcare, you must take precautions against the spread of COVID-19, including: physical distancing wash or sanitise your hands keep track of where you have been wear a face covering, where possible. Cancer centres around the country are continuing to deliver essential cancer services at all Alert Levels. At Level 4 , cancer centres must follow the physical distancing guidelines which may impact how treatment is delivered. It is extremely important that we protect people living with cancer from the risk of catching COVID-19. Te Aho o Te Kahu, New Zealand's Cancer Control Agency, provides more information about Cancer care during COVID-19. Learn more about Cancer care during Alert Levels 1-4 (external link) Routine screening will be paused for breast and cervical screening services. Bowel screening will continue. More information about bowel, breast and cervical screening (external link) Antenatal and newborn screening services will continue to be provided but with some changes to ensure the ongoing safety of women and babies. National Screening Unit (external link) Healthcare and disability services will run as normal at Alert Level 1. Health and disability services at Alert Level 1 | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 2, where possible health and disability services will open and operate as normal. Emergency care is still available, but some appointments will move to online or over the phone where possible. Some non-urgent services or treatment may be rescheduled. Community health services and screening services will continue. Disability and aged care services continue under Alert Level 2, with extra consideration given to how at-risk people are. Health and disability services at Alert Level 2 | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 3, we need to restrict our movements. You should only leave your home for essential personal movement, such as accessing healthcare. Healthcare services will open and operate normally, where possible. Healthcare businesses, such as pharmacies, can open. Hospitals will remain open for emergency care. Some non-urgent services or treatment may be rescheduled. When visiting a healthcare facility at Alert Level 3, you must wear a face covering. Any appointments with a medical professional will need to be online or over the phone, where possible. Community health services and screening services can continue. Some disability and aged care services can continue but will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Health and disability services at Alert Level 3 | health.govt.nz (external link) At Alert Level 4, you can only leave your house for essential personal movements, for example accessing healthcare like GPs, cancer services, disability and aged support services. Healthcare facilities will open and operate, where possible. You can access the treatments and medicines that you need to stay well. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it is important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Do not delay seeking help for any health needs at any Alert Level. For other health services such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists, call to confirm whether appointments will be available in person, by phone or online. If you need medical assistance, phone your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 first. You can travel to a healthcare facility, but it is recommended you call the facility before you go, so you know what to do when you get there. For example, you might need to use a certain entrance, or to wait outside in your car until called. Most consultations will happen over the phone or by videoconference to stop any risk of COVID-19 spreading by person-to-person contact. Health and disability services at Alert Level 4 | health.govt.nz (external link) Call your doctor if you need a routine appointment or a repeat prescription for your regular medication. Your doctor can set up an appointment online or over the phone. Pharmacies will open, even in Alert Level 4. If you need to go to your local pharmacy for medication, call them first to make sure you can go instore. If you are an at-risk group you may want to ask someone to pick up your medications for you. At Alert Level 4, disability and aged care services will continue. Some home help may be available if it can be accessed safely. Carers are permitted to work at Alert Level 4. If you are a carer travelling to provide care or support for a person who is in a critical or terminal condition, we recommend you carry proof of your travel. This can include a letter from a medical professional confirming there is a person who needs urgent care or support and your destination. At Alert Level 4, health services will continue to operate. However, there may be some changes to the way you receive medical care if you are pregnant or have recently given birth. Contact your midwife or doctor if you have any concerns. When you give birth, maternity facilities may have restrictions on the number of visitors and support people you can have with you. --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical assistance for severe symptoms of any kind, or have a serious injury, call emergency services on 111 , or go straight to hospital. --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned about any aspect of your health, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing call Plunketline on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- Emergency services will operate at all Alert Levels. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face covering. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. Information about what to do in an emergency --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels healthcare facilities and businesses will take precautions against the risk of COVID-19 transmission. These can include: risk screening on arrival contact tracing providing services over the phone or online if you have any symptoms asking you to wear a face covering while visiting the healthcare facility. When accessing healthcare, you must take precautions against the spread of COVID-19, including: physical distancing wash or sanitise your hands keep track of where you have been wear a face covering, where possible. --- Section Separator --- Cancer centres around the country are continuing to deliver essential cancer services at all Alert Levels. At Level 4 , cancer centres must follow the physical distancing guidelines which may impact how treatment is delivered. It is extremely important that we protect people living with cancer from the risk of catching COVID-19. Te Aho o Te Kahu, New Zealand's Cancer Control Agency, provides more information about Cancer care during COVID-19. Learn more about Cancer care during Alert Levels 1-4 (external link) Routine screening will be paused for breast and cervical screening services. Bowel screening will continue. More information about bowel, breast and cervical screening (external link) Antenatal and newborn screening services will continue to be provided but with some changes to ensure the ongoing safety of women and babies. National Screening Unit (external link) --- Section Separator --- Healthcare and disability services will run as normal at Alert Level 1. Health and disability services at Alert Level 1 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, where possible health and disability services will open and operate as normal. Emergency care is still available, but some appointments will move to online or over the phone where possible. Some non-urgent services or treatment may be rescheduled. Community health services and screening services will continue. Disability and aged care services continue under Alert Level 2, with extra consideration given to how at-risk people are. Health and disability services at Alert Level 2 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, we need to restrict our movements. You should only leave your home for essential personal movement, such as accessing healthcare. Healthcare services will open and operate normally, where possible. Healthcare businesses, such as pharmacies, can open. Hospitals will remain open for emergency care. Some non-urgent services or treatment may be rescheduled. When visiting a healthcare facility at Alert Level 3, you must wear a face covering. Any appointments with a medical professional will need to be online or over the phone, where possible. Community health services and screening services can continue. Some disability and aged care services can continue but will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Health and disability services at Alert Level 3 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, you can only leave your house for essential personal movements, for example accessing healthcare like GPs, cancer services, disability and aged support services. Healthcare facilities will open and operate, where possible. You can access the treatments and medicines that you need to stay well. Minor health issues can become more serious if ignored and it is important that you have the treatments and medications you need. Do not delay seeking help for any health needs at any Alert Level. For other health services such as physiotherapists, dietitians and dentists, call to confirm whether appointments will be available in person, by phone or online. If you need medical assistance, phone your doctor or Healthline on 0800 611 116 first. You can travel to a healthcare facility, but it is recommended you call the facility before you go, so you know what to do when you get there. For example, you might need to use a certain entrance, or to wait outside in your car until called. Most consultations will happen over the phone or by videoconference to stop any risk of COVID-19 spreading by person-to-person contact. Health and disability services at Alert Level 4 | health.govt.nz (external link) Call your doctor if you need a routine appointment or a repeat prescription for your regular medication. Your doctor can set up an appointment online or over the phone. Pharmacies will open, even in Alert Level 4. If you need to go to your local pharmacy for medication, call them first to make sure you can go instore. If you are an at-risk group you may want to ask someone to pick up your medications for you. At Alert Level 4, disability and aged care services will continue. Some home help may be available if it can be accessed safely. Carers are permitted to work at Alert Level 4. If you are a carer travelling to provide care or support for a person who is in a critical or terminal condition, we recommend you carry proof of your travel. This can include a letter from a medical professional confirming there is a person who needs urgent care or support and your destination. At Alert Level 4, health services will continue to operate. However, there may be some changes to the way you receive medical care if you are pregnant or have recently given birth. Contact your midwife or doctor if you have any concerns. When you give birth, maternity facilities may have restrictions on the number of visitors and support people you can have with you. --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare and emergency services In an emergency In an emergency Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene Get health and wellbeing support
Home Health and wellbeing How to access healthcare and emergency services In an emergency --- Section Separator --- Emergency services will operate at all Alert Levels. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face covering. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly. Maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance and wear a face covering, if possible. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link) If your region is at Alert Level 3 or 4 or you are isolating at home because of a public health order, you need to be prepared if there is a natural disaster. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. Include face coverings and other supplies, for example hand sanitiser, in your emergency grab bag. Move to a safe location and stay there until you get more advice. Immediate safety​ overrides COVID-19 isolation requirements. As soon as you and your whānau are safe, try to maintain household bubbles and physical distancing wherever possible. Keep a record of where you have been and who you have been with while you have been moving to safety — health professionals will need this information if there is an identified case of COVID-19. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- Emergency services will operate at all Alert Levels. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face covering. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. --- Section Separator --- If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly. Maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance and wear a face covering, if possible. --- Section Separator --- If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your region is at Alert Level 3 or 4 or you are isolating at home because of a public health order, you need to be prepared if there is a natural disaster. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. Include face coverings and other supplies, for example hand sanitiser, in your emergency grab bag. Move to a safe location and stay there until you get more advice. Immediate safety​ overrides COVID-19 isolation requirements. As soon as you and your whānau are safe, try to maintain household bubbles and physical distancing wherever possible. Keep a record of where you have been and who you have been with while you have been moving to safety — health professionals will need this information if there is an identified case of COVID-19. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- In an emergency
Home Health and wellbeing Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Getting through together | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | dia.govt.nz (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Getting through together | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | dia.govt.nz (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare and emergency services Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene Get health and wellbeing support
Home Health and wellbeing Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine — here’s what you can do to make sure you have the right information. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about the COVID-19 vaccine and the rollout in Aotearoa from a number of trusted sources, including: Unite against COVID-19 — Information for all New Zealanders on how to get a COVID-19 vaccination, our vaccination plan and information on vaccine safety and development. Unite against COVID-19 (external link) Ministry of Health — The Ministry of Health leads New Zealand’s health and disability system and has overall responsibility for the management and development of that system. Ministry of Health (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri Karawhiua campaign — Karawhiua is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. It's led by Te Puni Kōkiri (Ministry for Māori Development), co-delivered by Te Hiringa Hauora (Health Promotion Agency) and supported by the Ministry of Health and the Unite Against COVID-19 teams. Karawhiua (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples — As part of the New Zealand Government’s response and Unite Against COVID-19 campaign, MPP has launched a complementary campaign about receiving the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Ministry of Health list of DHBs and contact details — DHBs are responsible for ensuring the provision of health and disability services within their regions. You can also find trusted information on the website of your local DHB, including information on vaccinations in your local area. District Health Board websites — Ministry of Health (external link) You can also keep up to date with current information and frequently asked questions by following these organisations’ social media channels, or by speaking with your health provider. Unite Against COVID-19 has social media channels on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedIn. You can also sign up for emailed newsletters, including one focused on vaccine. Protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Helpful tips from CERT NZ: Ask yourself where the information is coming from, and what the author wants you to believe. Just because an article looks good or reads well does not mean the quality of the information in it is reliable. Many sources of misinformation are well produced. Before sharing a story it’s important to check if it’s credible. You can do this by checking where the original story appeared, who is promoting it, and what other people are saying. For instance, do a Google search of the information or the organisation it has come from, and read what trusted reliable sources (such as academics or the mainstream media) say about it. Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: the COVID-19 vaccine is free you will never be asked to pay for the vaccine or pay to secure your place in the queue we will never ask for your financial details, your bank card details, PIN or banking password. official information about the vaccine will come from a trusted provider of health content, such as the Ministry of Health, Unite Against COVID-19, or your District Health Board a health worker will never come to your home to give you the vaccine, unless arranged with you beforehand if you receive an email, phone call, text message, or instant message asking for financial details in regards to the vaccine it will be a scam. Report it to CERT NZ immediately. If someone requests your financial details, or you find false or misleading information on leaflets, websites or elsewhere, report it immediately to CERT NZ. Find out how to report a COVID-19 scam or misinformation — CERT NZ (external link) If you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here is how to do it: How do I mark a Facebook post as false news? — Facebook (external link) Report inappropriate content — YouTube (external link) Report a tweet, list or direct message — Twitter (external link) Reduce the spread of false information — Instagram (external link) Staying safe on Whatsapp — Whatsapp (external link) Report a problem — TikTok (external link) CERT.govt.nz (external link) — CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for misinformation and online scams. Keep it Real Online (external link) — Advice to help young people figure out what is real and what is not. Netsafe (external link) — Netsafe is New Zealand’s independent, non-profit online safety organisation . Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) --- Section Separator --- Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine — here’s what you can do to make sure you have the right information. --- Section Separator --- You can find the most accurate and reliable information about the COVID-19 vaccine and the rollout in Aotearoa from a number of trusted sources, including: Unite against COVID-19 — Information for all New Zealanders on how to get a COVID-19 vaccination, our vaccination plan and information on vaccine safety and development. Unite against COVID-19 (external link) Ministry of Health — The Ministry of Health leads New Zealand’s health and disability system and has overall responsibility for the management and development of that system. Ministry of Health (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri Karawhiua campaign — Karawhiua is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. It's led by Te Puni Kōkiri (Ministry for Māori Development), co-delivered by Te Hiringa Hauora (Health Promotion Agency) and supported by the Ministry of Health and the Unite Against COVID-19 teams. Karawhiua (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples — As part of the New Zealand Government’s response and Unite Against COVID-19 campaign, MPP has launched a complementary campaign about receiving the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Ministry of Health list of DHBs and contact details — DHBs are responsible for ensuring the provision of health and disability services within their regions. You can also find trusted information on the website of your local DHB, including information on vaccinations in your local area. District Health Board websites — Ministry of Health (external link) You can also keep up to date with current information and frequently asked questions by following these organisations’ social media channels, or by speaking with your health provider. Unite Against COVID-19 has social media channels on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedIn. You can also sign up for emailed newsletters, including one focused on vaccine. --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Helpful tips from CERT NZ: Ask yourself where the information is coming from, and what the author wants you to believe. Just because an article looks good or reads well does not mean the quality of the information in it is reliable. Many sources of misinformation are well produced. Before sharing a story it’s important to check if it’s credible. You can do this by checking where the original story appeared, who is promoting it, and what other people are saying. For instance, do a Google search of the information or the organisation it has come from, and read what trusted reliable sources (such as academics or the mainstream media) say about it. --- Section Separator --- Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: the COVID-19 vaccine is free you will never be asked to pay for the vaccine or pay to secure your place in the queue we will never ask for your financial details, your bank card details, PIN or banking password. official information about the vaccine will come from a trusted provider of health content, such as the Ministry of Health, Unite Against COVID-19, or your District Health Board a health worker will never come to your home to give you the vaccine, unless arranged with you beforehand if you receive an email, phone call, text message, or instant message asking for financial details in regards to the vaccine it will be a scam. Report it to CERT NZ immediately. If someone requests your financial details, or you find false or misleading information on leaflets, websites or elsewhere, report it immediately to CERT NZ. Find out how to report a COVID-19 scam or misinformation — CERT NZ (external link) If you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here is how to do it: How do I mark a Facebook post as false news? — Facebook (external link) Report inappropriate content — YouTube (external link) Report a tweet, list or direct message — Twitter (external link) Reduce the spread of false information — Instagram (external link) Staying safe on Whatsapp — Whatsapp (external link) Report a problem — TikTok (external link) --- Section Separator --- CERT.govt.nz (external link) — CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for misinformation and online scams. Keep it Real Online (external link) — Advice to help young people figure out what is real and what is not. Netsafe (external link) — Netsafe is New Zealand’s independent, non-profit online safety organisation . Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Contact tracing COVID-19 testing How to access healthcare and emergency services Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Misinformation and scams Signs and posters for practising good hygiene Get health and wellbeing support
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 There is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. --- Section Separator --- If you are feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you are helping keep your community safe. If in doubt, rule it out. Scan QR codes wherever you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. Using the app will help our health services reach people quickly to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. They are useful when physical distancing is harder. You legally must wear a face covering in some locations. Keep your community safe, and cover for each other. --- Section Separator --- Good hygiene helps prevent the spread of COVID-19. This includes washing your hands often, coughing and sneezing into your elbow, and cleaning surfaces. When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself. You are also doing your bit by reducing the risk of passing on COVID-19 to your whānau, friends and community. Keep a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns.
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Maintain good hygiene --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. You should wash your hands if you have been in a public place, or after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. It is important to wash your hands: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space or touching surfaces outside of your home after handling your face covering before and after eating or preparing food after using the toilet, changing babies' nappies or helping children use the toilet after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets when your hands are visibly dirty or feel dirty. Using hand sanitiser is effective at killing germs and viruses when done correctly. It destroys the protective bubble of the virus, but only if the sanitiser has at least 60% alcohol. Sanitiser is also effective in reducing the number and type of germs. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you are outside of your home but can be expensive or difficult to find in an emergency. Make sure you use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol and rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds. Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash your hands thoroughly. This will catch the droplets and keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. A face covering also helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Clean surfaces regularly. This includes items frequently touched like door handles, light switches and phones. Cleaning surfaces is important because, like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. If surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first. It is best to use a disinfectant. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. The risk of becoming infected with COVID-19 increases the closer you are to a person and the longer you are close to that person. The risk is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. The risk is lower outside when there are fewer people, and when you are further away from others. Being in enclosed spaces with poor ventilation is when fine particles containing virus can build-up. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. If air conditioning is used, make sure the system is regularly maintained. --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. You should wash your hands if you have been in a public place, or after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. It is important to wash your hands: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space or touching surfaces outside of your home after handling your face covering before and after eating or preparing food after using the toilet, changing babies' nappies or helping children use the toilet after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets when your hands are visibly dirty or feel dirty. Using hand sanitiser is effective at killing germs and viruses when done correctly. It destroys the protective bubble of the virus, but only if the sanitiser has at least 60% alcohol. Sanitiser is also effective in reducing the number and type of germs. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you are outside of your home but can be expensive or difficult to find in an emergency. Make sure you use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol and rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds. --- Section Separator --- Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash your hands thoroughly. This will catch the droplets and keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. A face covering also helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. --- Section Separator --- Clean surfaces regularly. This includes items frequently touched like door handles, light switches and phones. Cleaning surfaces is important because, like the flu, COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. If surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first. It is best to use a disinfectant. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- The risk of becoming infected with COVID-19 increases the closer you are to a person and the longer you are close to that person. The risk is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. The risk is lower outside when there are fewer people, and when you are further away from others. Being in enclosed spaces with poor ventilation is when fine particles containing virus can build-up. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. If air conditioning is used, make sure the system is regularly maintained. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering Maintain good hygiene Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Maintain physical distancing --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as 'social distancing', is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health, you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. Even if you are wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. It is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. When you leave your home, keep a 2 metre distance from other people, except for friends and family. This means making the space when you are in places like playgrounds, parks, shops, or walking along the street. Businesses must make sure workers can keep 1 metre apart, where possible. At restaurants, cafes and bars, there must be 1 metre between adjacent tables. At event facilities such as cinemas, stadiums, and concert venues, everyone must keep 1 metre apart, except for friends and families. You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you are feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will affect particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who do not live together and are not whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Outside of your home, you legally must keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times, as much as possible. Workers legally must maintain a 1 metre physical distance in the workplace, as much as possible. Outside of your home keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times. --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as 'social distancing', is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health, you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. Even if you are wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. It is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. When you leave your home, keep a 2 metre distance from other people, except for friends and family. This means making the space when you are in places like playgrounds, parks, shops, or walking along the street. Businesses must make sure workers can keep 1 metre apart, where possible. At restaurants, cafes and bars, there must be 1 metre between adjacent tables. At event facilities such as cinemas, stadiums, and concert venues, everyone must keep 1 metre apart, except for friends and families. You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you are feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will affect particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who do not live together and are not whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. --- Section Separator --- Outside of your home, you legally must keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times, as much as possible. Workers legally must maintain a 1 metre physical distance in the workplace, as much as possible. --- Section Separator --- Outside of your home keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering Maintain good hygiene Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Stay home if you are sick --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you are helping keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. Staying at home if you are sick is one way to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. COVID-19 symptoms You will need to self-isolate while you wait for a negative result from a COVID-19 test. You may also be told to isolate if you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. If you are told to self-isolate by a health official, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Do not go to work or school. Limit contact with others you live with — for example, sleep by yourself and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. Do not share items with others in your household — for example, dishes, toothbrushes, and towels. Do your own laundry. Do not have visitors in your home. Try not to leave your house if you have symptoms. If you need to, stay at least 2 metres away from others. We recommend you wear a face covering. If you need food, prescriptions or essential items get friends or family to leave them on your doorstep, or get supplies delivered. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) Essential personal care services, such as toileting, washing and feeding, can continue. If you are identified as a contact of a case, carers must use good hand hygiene and physical distancing of 2 metres when possible. If this is not possible, they must wear personal protection equipment like disposable gloves and masks. If you are unable to self-isolate at home, your local public health official can help determine where you are best able to self-isolate safely. This may be in a managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) facility. These facilities are in hotels in different locations across New Zealand. You legally must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag. This bag can then go into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, we recommend still putting all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag. Then put that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. More information about COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More information about COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you are helping keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. Staying at home if you are sick is one way to stop any possible spread of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- You will need to self-isolate while you wait for a negative result from a COVID-19 test. You may also be told to isolate if you are a contact of someone who has COVID-19. If you are told to self-isolate by a health official, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Do not go to work or school. Limit contact with others you live with — for example, sleep by yourself and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. Do not share items with others in your household — for example, dishes, toothbrushes, and towels. Do your own laundry. Do not have visitors in your home. Try not to leave your house if you have symptoms. If you need to, stay at least 2 metres away from others. We recommend you wear a face covering. If you need food, prescriptions or essential items get friends or family to leave them on your doorstep, or get supplies delivered. Guidance on self-isolation at home | health.govt.nz (external link) Essential personal care services, such as toileting, washing and feeding, can continue. If you are identified as a contact of a case, carers must use good hand hygiene and physical distancing of 2 metres when possible. If this is not possible, they must wear personal protection equipment like disposable gloves and masks. If you are unable to self-isolate at home, your local public health official can help determine where you are best able to self-isolate safely. This may be in a managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) facility. These facilities are in hotels in different locations across New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- You legally must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag. This bag can then go into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, we recommend still putting all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag. Then put that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. --- Section Separator --- If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, it is important you stay home until you get a negative result. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. More information about COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More information about COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering Maintain good hygiene Maintain physical distancing
Face coverings can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. You must wear a face covering in some locations. Keep your community safe, and cover for each other. --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. Face coverings are particularly useful in poorly ventilated indoor spaces and when physical distancing is hard. They stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Face coverings are one part of keeping yourself and others safe. Our strategy to protect New Zealand against COVID-19 is based on our border protections, testing, contact tracing, vaccination, and other healthy habits, like washing hands and physical distancing. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to help keep people safe. --- Section Separator --- You need to wear a face covering at certain places when you are out and about. For example when shopping. At Alert Level 2, 3 and 4 you must wear a face covering if you work in a public-facing job. Some people may not be able to wear a face covering. There are also times when you do not need to wear one. --- Section Separator --- If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You can request a card from: Disabled Persons Assembly NZ by contacting them on 04 801 9100 or emailing them at info@dpa.org.nz Blind Citizens NZ on 0800 222 696 or emailing them at admin@abcnz.org.nz — for blind, deafblind, low vision, and vision-impaired people Deaf Aotearoa by emailing covid@deaf.org.nz — for people who are deaf or hard of hearing. You should only request an exemption card if you have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable. --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to prevent you from spreading diseases to others. It could also help protect you from becoming infected. A face covering needs to go over your nose and mouth. A face shield is not effective as a face covering. A suitable reusable or disposable face covering is needed to help protect against the airborne spread of COVID-19. A single-use face covering can only be worn once, and we recommend you throw it away after wearing it. Fabric reusable face coverings can be washed and reused. Many stores and online retailers now offer face coverings. If you do not have a face covering, you do not need to buy one. You can make one with what you have available at home. How to make a face covering How to wear a face covering safely
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wear a face covering How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- A clean piece of cotton material, for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase cut into a square. Something to make ear loops like hair ties, elastic bands or some string or ribbon tied in a loop. Take a clean piece of cotton material — for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase. Cut into a square, if it is not already. Fold it from the top inwards a third of the way down. Fold from the bottom inwards, a third of the way up. You should have an rectangle of material, folded into 3 layers. Loop your hair ties or elastic bands over the ends of the folded material. Leave enough room in the middle to comfortably cover your mouth and nose. Fold the outer edges inwards. This adds an extra layer of material over your mouth and nose. It also helps hold the face covering together. Pick up the face covering by the bands. Loop them over 1 ear at a time. Wear the face covering with the join against your face. Make your own face covering with just a handkerchief or t-shirt and 2 hair ties. Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Water-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut out a rectangle from the water-resistant fabric for the middle layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take 1 piece of your cotton fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of cotton fabric together. Make sure the cotton that will be on the outside of your face covering is turned inwards here. Lay the water-resistant fabric on top of your cotton fabric. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face covering in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] --- Section Separator --- A clean piece of cotton material, for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase cut into a square. Something to make ear loops like hair ties, elastic bands or some string or ribbon tied in a loop. Take a clean piece of cotton material — for example a handkerchief, a section of an old t-shirt or a pillowcase. Cut into a square, if it is not already. Fold it from the top inwards a third of the way down. Fold from the bottom inwards, a third of the way up. You should have an rectangle of material, folded into 3 layers. Loop your hair ties or elastic bands over the ends of the folded material. Leave enough room in the middle to comfortably cover your mouth and nose. Fold the outer edges inwards. This adds an extra layer of material over your mouth and nose. It also helps hold the face covering together. Pick up the face covering by the bands. Loop them over 1 ear at a time. Wear the face covering with the join against your face. Make your own face covering with just a handkerchief or t-shirt and 2 hair ties. --- Section Separator --- Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Water-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut out a rectangle from the water-resistant fabric for the middle layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take 1 piece of your cotton fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of cotton fabric together. Make sure the cotton that will be on the outside of your face covering is turned inwards here. Lay the water-resistant fabric on top of your cotton fabric. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face covering in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. --- Section Separator --- How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wear a face covering when leaving your home Wearing a face covering when you are at work Who does not need to wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wear a face covering when leaving your home Wearing a face covering when you are at work Who does not need to wear a face covering Maintain good hygiene Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely --- Section Separator --- Never share face coverings with other people. We do not recommend face coverings be worn by: young children or people who could not remove them without assistance people who have trouble breathing. Do not re-use a mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. Before you put on your face covering, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Place the face covering over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face covering should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your face covering down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your face covering off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the face covering, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth face coverings by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the face covering completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp face covering. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put face coverings in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face coverings. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face covering safely. How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Never share face coverings with other people. We do not recommend face coverings be worn by: young children or people who could not remove them without assistance people who have trouble breathing. Do not re-use a mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. --- Section Separator --- Before you put on your face covering, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Place the face covering over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face covering should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your face covering, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your face covering down below your chin. --- Section Separator --- Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your face covering off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the face covering, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth face coverings by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the face covering completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp face covering. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put face coverings in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face coverings. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face covering safely. --- Section Separator --- How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wear a face covering when leaving your home Wearing a face covering when you are at work Who does not need to wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wear a face covering when leaving your home Wearing a face covering when you are at work Who does not need to wear a face covering Maintain good hygiene Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wear a face covering Wear a face covering when leaving your home --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from others, like in crowded indoor places. You must wear a face covering when: on public transport on flights. We encourage you to wear a face covering and keep 2 metres distance from others when leaving your home. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. You must wear a face covering when: on public transport and at arrival and departure points, for example airports, train stations and bus stops on ferry services carrying passengers between the North and South Islands on flights in taxis or ride share vehicles visiting a healthcare or aged care facility inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, indoor marketplaces and takeaway food stores at a farmer's market inside a vet clinic inside public venues, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools visiting the public areas within courts, tribunals, local and central government agencies, social service providers, and premises operated by NZ Police. In general, face coverings should be worn whenever you can. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. We know people want to do the right thing, in these locations you are not required to wear a face covering, but we strongly encourage you to if possible. People cannot eat while wearing a face covering. As a customer at a cafe or restaurant you will be seated and separated. You are not required to wear a face covering, but are encouraged to wear one when you are not eating or drinking. For example, when entering the premises or getting up to go to the bathroom. Employees must wear a face covering. If you are going to a barber, beauty therapist, hairdresser or accessing another close contact business, a face covering can become impractical. You are encouraged to wear one if possible, but it is not required. Employees must wear a face covering. When exercising you do not need to wear a face covering. This includes outside, at a gym, group exercise or dance class. You do not need to wear a face covering at schools or tertiary education facilities, but we strongly encourage anyone 12 and over to wear a face covering. You also do not need to wear a face covering when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. But you are strongly encouraged. You do not need to wear a face covering at these events, but we strongly encourage you to. At worship or faith-based gatherings. If you are singing, for example in a church choir, you do not need to wear a face covering. At a funeral or tangihanga. At a party or private social gathering, for example a wedding. At a public event or entertainment facility, for example stadiums, cinemas and casinos. At a performance. Performers do not need to wear a face covering when on stage, but we encourage you to wear one when backstage. People in the audience are encouraged, but can take it off to eat and drink. We encourage you to wear a face covering and keep 2 metres distance from others when leaving your home. At Alert Level 3 you must still stay in your household bubble. You must wear a face covering when: on public transport and at arrival and departure points, for example airports, train stations and bus stops on ferry services carrying passengers between the North and South Islands on flights in taxis or ride share vehicles visiting a healthcare facility, unless you are a patient inside a retail business that is open, for example supermarkets, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside a vet clinic visiting the public areas within courts, tribunals, local and central government agencies, social service providers, and premises operated by New Zealand Police in an indoor setting at a high school, for example a classroom and assemblies. This includes students in Years 9 to 13 and staff attending a viewing at a funeral home. When exercising you do not need to wear a face covering, but we encourage you to take one with you if physical distancing is difficult. We encourage you to wear a face covering and keep 2 metres distance from others when leaving your home. At Alert Level 4 you must stay home. You must wear a face covering when: on public transport and at arrival and departure points, for example airports, train stations and bus stops on ferry services carrying passengers between the North and South Islands on flights in taxis or ride share vehicles visiting a healthcare facility, unless you are a patient inside a retail business that is open, for example supermarkets, pharmacies, and petrol stations visiting the public areas within courts, tribunals, local and central government agencies, and social service providers attending a viewing at a funeral home. When exercising you do not need to wear a face covering, but we encourage you to take one with you if physical distancing is difficult. There are some situations where a face covering does not need to be worn. We also know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. Please be mindful of this. They still have the right to access businesses and services. In general, face coverings should be worn whenever you can. The Delta variant is more transmissible by droplets, so face coverings are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You can request a card from: Disabled Persons Assembly NZ by contacting them on 04 801 9100 or emailing them at info@dpa.org.nz Blind Citizens NZ on 0800 222 696 or emailing them at admin@abcnz.org.nz — for blind, deafblind, low vision, and vision-impaired people Deaf Aotearoa by emailing covid@deaf.org.nz — for people who are Deaf or hard of hearing. You should only request an exemption card if you have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from others, like in crowded indoor places. You must wear a face covering when: on public transport on flights. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face covering and keep 2 metres distance from others when leaving your home. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. You must wear a face covering when: on public transport and at arrival and departure points, for example airports, train stations and bus stops on ferry services carrying passengers between the North and South Islands on flights in taxis or ride share vehicles visiting a healthcare or aged care facility inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, indoor marketplaces and takeaway food stores at a farmer's market inside a vet clinic inside public venues, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools visiting the public areas within courts, tribunals, local and central government agencies, social service providers, and premises operated by NZ Police. In general, face coverings should be worn whenever you can. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. We know people want to do the right thing, in these locations you are not required to wear a face covering, but we strongly encourage you to if possible. People cannot eat while wearing a face covering. As a customer at a cafe or restaurant you will be seated and separated. You are not required to wear a face covering, but are encouraged to wear one when you are not eating or drinking. For example, when entering the premises or getting up to go to the bathroom. Employees must wear a face covering. If you are going to a barber, beauty therapist, hairdresser or accessing another close contact business, a face covering can become impractical. You are encouraged to wear one if possible, but it is not required. Employees must wear a face covering. When exercising you do not need to wear a face covering. This includes outside, at a gym, group exercise or dance class. You do not need to wear a face covering at schools or tertiary education facilities, but we strongly encourage anyone 12 and over to wear a face covering. You also do not need to wear a face covering when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. But you are strongly encouraged. You do not need to wear a face covering at these events, but we strongly encourage you to. At worship or faith-based gatherings. If you are singing, for example in a church choir, you do not need to wear a face covering. At a funeral or tangihanga. At a party or private social gathering, for example a wedding. At a public event or entertainment facility, for example stadiums, cinemas and casinos. At a performance. Performers do not need to wear a face covering when on stage, but we encourage you to wear one when backstage. People in the audience are encouraged, but can take it off to eat and drink. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face covering and keep 2 metres distance from others when leaving your home. At Alert Level 3 you must still stay in your household bubble. You must wear a face covering when: on public transport and at arrival and departure points, for example airports, train stations and bus stops on ferry services carrying passengers between the North and South Islands on flights in taxis or ride share vehicles visiting a healthcare facility, unless you are a patient inside a retail business that is open, for example supermarkets, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside a vet clinic visiting the public areas within courts, tribunals, local and central government agencies, social service providers, and premises operated by New Zealand Police in an indoor setting at a high school, for example a classroom and assemblies. This includes students in Years 9 to 13 and staff attending a viewing at a funeral home. When exercising you do not need to wear a face covering, but we encourage you to take one with you if physical distancing is difficult. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face covering and keep 2 metres distance from others when leaving your home. At Alert Level 4 you must stay home. You must wear a face covering when: on public transport and at arrival and departure points, for example airports, train stations and bus stops on ferry services carrying passengers between the North and South Islands on flights in taxis or ride share vehicles visiting a healthcare facility, unless you are a patient inside a retail business that is open, for example supermarkets, pharmacies, and petrol stations visiting the public areas within courts, tribunals, local and central government agencies, and social service providers attending a viewing at a funeral home. When exercising you do not need to wear a face covering, but we encourage you to take one with you if physical distancing is difficult. --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face covering does not need to be worn. We also know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. Please be mindful of this. They still have the right to access businesses and services. In general, face coverings should be worn whenever you can. The Delta variant is more transmissible by droplets, so face coverings are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You can request a card from: Disabled Persons Assembly NZ by contacting them on 04 801 9100 or emailing them at info@dpa.org.nz Blind Citizens NZ on 0800 222 696 or emailing them at admin@abcnz.org.nz — for blind, deafblind, low vision, and vision-impaired people Deaf Aotearoa by emailing covid@deaf.org.nz — for people who are Deaf or hard of hearing. You should only request an exemption card if you have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wear a face covering when leaving your home Wearing a face covering when you are at work Who does not need to wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wear a face covering when leaving your home Wearing a face covering when you are at work Who does not need to wear a face covering Maintain good hygiene Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wear a face covering Wearing a face covering when you are at work --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face covering if you are a driver of: a taxi or ride-share vehicle public transport — except if you are closed off from passengers, for example a train driver. You must wear a face covering if you have any customer contact when you are at work. You must wear a face covering if you work: in a public-facing area at a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, licensing trust, pharmacy, food bank, self-service laundry, hardware store, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, shopping mall, bank or at New Zealand Post in a public-facing area at a retail store as a delivery driver to residential addresses — delivery drivers only need to wear a face covering when they are out of their vehicle at a cafe, restaurant, bar, nightclub, soup kitchen or any other food or drink business in a customer-facing role for a close contact service — for example, barbers, hairdressers or beauty therapists at a vet clinic at a farmer's market at a social gathering, for example a wedding by providing services while on site in a home or place of residence, except for providing childcare in a public-facing area at an indoor public facility — for example, a library or museum, but not at a swimming pool in the public-facing area of a court, tribunal, local or central government agency or social service provider as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — this excludes school buses and ferries between the North Island and South Island. If you work in an environment that does not have customers or is not public facing, you do not need to wear a face covering. For example, in an office building or on a factory floor. However, if you have contact with customers at any point, for example at reception or in the lift, you must wear a face covering. This includes if you meet with clients regularly, such as lawyers and accountants. We encourage you to wear a face covering if it is hard to maintain physical distance. Working safely at Alert Level 2 Employees working in public-facing places such as swimming pools, event facilities (such as cinemas or conference centres), or gyms are encouraged but not required to wear a face covering. You must wear a face covering if you have any customer contact while at work. You must wear a face covering if you work: in a public-facing role at a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, licensing trust, pharmacy, food bank, self-service laundry, hardware store, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, shopping mall, bank or New Zealand Post in the public-facing area of a court, tribunal, local or central government agency or social service provider as a delivery driver to residential addresses — delivery drivers only need to wear a face covering when they are out of their vehicle as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — this excludes school buses in the passenger areas of the ferry that runs between the North and South Island at a veterinary clinic in someone's home — for example as a tradesperson or locksmith in an indoor setting at a high school when at Alert Level 3, for example in classrooms and assemblies. Working safely at Alert Level 3 You must wear a face covering if you have any customer contact when you are at work. You must wear a face covering if you work: in a public-facing role at a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, licensing trust, pharmacy, food bank, self-service laundry, hardware store, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, shopping mall, bank or New Zealand Post in the public-facing area of a court, tribunal, local or central government agency or social service provider as a delivery driver to residential addresses — delivery drivers only need to wear a face covering when they are out of their vehicle as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — this excludes school buses in the passenger areas of the ferry that runs between the North and South Island at a veterinary clinic in someone's home, for example as a tradesperson doing an emergency job, except if you are providing childcare. Working safely at Alert Level 4 We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. If a customer enters the business premises without a face covering, you should be mindful of this. If you are a customer-facing worker and cannot wear a face covering, you do not need to wear a face covering. We encourage you to work with your employer to see if there are other health and safety actions that can be taken. You can also apply for an exemption card. In general, face coverings should be worn whenever you can. The Delta variant is more transmissible by droplets, so face coverings are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering Encourage workers and customers to wear a face covering when entering the premises. Businesses and workers do not need to enforce the use of face coverings. Some people cannot wear a face covering and are exempt. They still have the right to access businesses and services. Some people will have an exemption card with them to show there is a reason why a face covering is unsuitable for them. Exemption cards are not mandatory, so some people will not have one. Be kind and respectful of privacy when approaching a customer who is not wearing a face covering. While it is not always obvious why a face covering is unsuitable, it is inappropriate to enquire about someone's disability or condition. If someone refuses to wear a face covering, you do not need to take any further action. Face covering requirements | business.govt.nz (external link) Face covering posters for businesses If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You can request a card from: Disabled Persons Assembly NZ by contacting them on 04 801 9100 or emailing them at info@dpa.org.nz Blind Citizens NZ on 0800 222 696 or emailing them at admin@abcnz.org.nz — for blind, deafblind, low vision, and vision-impaired people Deaf Aotearoa by emailing covid@deaf.org.nz — for people who are Deaf or hard of hearing. You should only request an exemption card if you have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable. Healthcare workers face covering requirements are not included in the Pubic Health Order that outlines face coverings. There are separate personal protective equipment (PPE) requirements at healthcare facilities. PPE use in health and disability care settings (external link) --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face covering if you are a driver of: a taxi or ride-share vehicle public transport — except if you are closed off from passengers, for example a train driver. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face covering if you have any customer contact when you are at work. You must wear a face covering if you work: in a public-facing area at a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, licensing trust, pharmacy, food bank, self-service laundry, hardware store, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, shopping mall, bank or at New Zealand Post in a public-facing area at a retail store as a delivery driver to residential addresses — delivery drivers only need to wear a face covering when they are out of their vehicle at a cafe, restaurant, bar, nightclub, soup kitchen or any other food or drink business in a customer-facing role for a close contact service — for example, barbers, hairdressers or beauty therapists at a vet clinic at a farmer's market at a social gathering, for example a wedding by providing services while on site in a home or place of residence, except for providing childcare in a public-facing area at an indoor public facility — for example, a library or museum, but not at a swimming pool in the public-facing area of a court, tribunal, local or central government agency or social service provider as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — this excludes school buses and ferries between the North Island and South Island. If you work in an environment that does not have customers or is not public facing, you do not need to wear a face covering. For example, in an office building or on a factory floor. However, if you have contact with customers at any point, for example at reception or in the lift, you must wear a face covering. This includes if you meet with clients regularly, such as lawyers and accountants. We encourage you to wear a face covering if it is hard to maintain physical distance. Working safely at Alert Level 2 Employees working in public-facing places such as swimming pools, event facilities (such as cinemas or conference centres), or gyms are encouraged but not required to wear a face covering. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face covering if you have any customer contact while at work. You must wear a face covering if you work: in a public-facing role at a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, licensing trust, pharmacy, food bank, self-service laundry, hardware store, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, shopping mall, bank or New Zealand Post in the public-facing area of a court, tribunal, local or central government agency or social service provider as a delivery driver to residential addresses — delivery drivers only need to wear a face covering when they are out of their vehicle as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — this excludes school buses in the passenger areas of the ferry that runs between the North and South Island at a veterinary clinic in someone's home — for example as a tradesperson or locksmith in an indoor setting at a high school when at Alert Level 3, for example in classrooms and assemblies. Working safely at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face covering if you have any customer contact when you are at work. You must wear a face covering if you work: in a public-facing role at a supermarket, dairy, petrol station, licensing trust, pharmacy, food bank, self-service laundry, hardware store, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, shopping mall, bank or New Zealand Post in the public-facing area of a court, tribunal, local or central government agency or social service provider as a delivery driver to residential addresses — delivery drivers only need to wear a face covering when they are out of their vehicle as a driver of a taxi, ride-share vehicle, ferry, bus or train used for public transport — this excludes school buses in the passenger areas of the ferry that runs between the North and South Island at a veterinary clinic in someone's home, for example as a tradesperson doing an emergency job, except if you are providing childcare. Working safely at Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. If a customer enters the business premises without a face covering, you should be mindful of this. If you are a customer-facing worker and cannot wear a face covering, you do not need to wear a face covering. We encourage you to work with your employer to see if there are other health and safety actions that can be taken. You can also apply for an exemption card. In general, face coverings should be worn whenever you can. The Delta variant is more transmissible by droplets, so face coverings are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. Who does not need to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Encourage workers and customers to wear a face covering when entering the premises. Businesses and workers do not need to enforce the use of face coverings. Some people cannot wear a face covering and are exempt. They still have the right to access businesses and services. Some people will have an exemption card with them to show there is a reason why a face covering is unsuitable for them. Exemption cards are not mandatory, so some people will not have one. Be kind and respectful of privacy when approaching a customer who is not wearing a face covering. While it is not always obvious why a face covering is unsuitable, it is inappropriate to enquire about someone's disability or condition. If someone refuses to wear a face covering, you do not need to take any further action. Face covering requirements | business.govt.nz (external link) Face covering posters for businesses --- Section Separator --- If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You can request a card from: Disabled Persons Assembly NZ by contacting them on 04 801 9100 or emailing them at info@dpa.org.nz Blind Citizens NZ on 0800 222 696 or emailing them at admin@abcnz.org.nz — for blind, deafblind, low vision, and vision-impaired people Deaf Aotearoa by emailing covid@deaf.org.nz — for people who are Deaf or hard of hearing. You should only request an exemption card if you have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable. --- Section Separator --- Healthcare workers face covering requirements are not included in the Pubic Health Order that outlines face coverings. There are separate personal protective equipment (PPE) requirements at healthcare facilities. PPE use in health and disability care settings (external link) --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wear a face covering when leaving your home Wearing a face covering when you are at work Who does not need to wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wear a face covering when leaving your home Wearing a face covering when you are at work Who does not need to wear a face covering Maintain good hygiene Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wear a face covering Who does not need to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face covering does not need to be worn. We also know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. Please be mindful of this. They still have the right to food, pharmacies and other services. In general, you should wear a face covering whenever you can. The Delta variant is more transmissible by droplets, so face coverings are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. by children under 12 by students on school buses on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry. it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf or hard of hearing you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. An exemption card has is available that you can show to transport operators, retailers and service providers. Exemption cards are not mandatory but make it easier whenever you need to explain that a face covering is unsuitable for you. Sometimes the reason why a face covering is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face covering. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face covering. If you cannot wear a face covering, you need to keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You can request a card from: Disabled Persons Assembly NZ by contacting them on 04 801 9100 or emailing them at info@dpa.org.nz Blind Citizens NZ on 0800 222 696 or emailing them at admin@abcnz.org.nz — for blind, deafblind, low vision, and vision-impaired people Deaf Aotearoa by emailing covid@deaf.org.nz — for people who are Deaf or hard of hearing. You should only request an exemption card if you have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable. --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face covering does not need to be worn. We also know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. Please be mindful of this. They still have the right to food, pharmacies and other services. In general, you should wear a face covering whenever you can. The Delta variant is more transmissible by droplets, so face coverings are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. by children under 12 by students on school buses on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry. it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf or hard of hearing you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. --- Section Separator --- We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. An exemption card has is available that you can show to transport operators, retailers and service providers. Exemption cards are not mandatory but make it easier whenever you need to explain that a face covering is unsuitable for you. Sometimes the reason why a face covering is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face covering. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face covering. If you cannot wear a face covering, you need to keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. --- Section Separator --- If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You can request a card from: Disabled Persons Assembly NZ by contacting them on 04 801 9100 or emailing them at info@dpa.org.nz Blind Citizens NZ on 0800 222 696 or emailing them at admin@abcnz.org.nz — for blind, deafblind, low vision, and vision-impaired people Deaf Aotearoa by emailing covid@deaf.org.nz — for people who are Deaf or hard of hearing. You should only request an exemption card if you have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you are sick Keep track of where you have been Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wear a face covering when leaving your home Wearing a face covering when you are at work Who does not need to wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wear a face covering when leaving your home Wearing a face covering when you are at work Who does not need to wear a face covering Maintain good hygiene Maintain physical distancing
An audio description adds an audio track to videos to describe essential information that is only presented visually on the screen. Audio descriptions help people who: are blind, vision-impaired or have low vision cannot keep their eyes on the screen because they are doing something — for example, cooking want help keeping track of details in the story. Find out more about audio description (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find out more about the COVID-19 vaccine Find out why it is important to wear a face covering Find out about Bluetooth tracing and the NZ COVID Tracer app.
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Booking your COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 4 MB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 1.2 MB] An update about the gap between vaccine doses [DOCX, 2.8 MB] An update about the gap between vaccine doses [PDF, 1.3 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [DOCX, 14 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [PDF, 2.8 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.6 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.4 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 11 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.5 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 8.9 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.8 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 15 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 3.8 MB] The COVID-19 vaccination record card has been updated. The new design has one of the corners cut. You may still receive the old design while vaccination centres use up stock. COVID-19 vaccination record card — new design [DOCX, 5 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — new design [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — old design [DOCX, 4.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — old design [PDF, 1.2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Booking your COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 4 MB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 1.2 MB] An update about the gap between vaccine doses [DOCX, 2.8 MB] An update about the gap between vaccine doses [PDF, 1.3 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [DOCX, 14 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [PDF, 2.8 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.6 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.4 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 11 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.5 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 8.9 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.8 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 15 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 3.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 vaccination record card has been updated. The new design has one of the corners cut. You may still receive the old design while vaccination centres use up stock. COVID-19 vaccination record card — new design [DOCX, 5 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — new design [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — old design [DOCX, 4.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — old design [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) About the Alert Levels (Easy Read) About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) About the Alert Levels (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Easy Read About COVID-19 (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [DOCX, 9 MB] What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [PDF, 1.3 MB] Getting the right information matters [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information matters [PDF, 850 KB] What is the Delta variant [DOCX, 11 MB] What is the Delta variant [PDF, 2.2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [DOCX, 9 MB] What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [PDF, 1.3 MB] Getting the right information matters [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information matters [PDF, 850 KB] What is the Delta variant [DOCX, 11 MB] What is the Delta variant [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) About the Alert Levels (Easy Read) About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) About the Alert Levels (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Easy Read About the Alert Levels (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- It is safe to go to school [DOCX, 2.6 MB] It is safe to go to school [PDF, 802 KB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] What is Alert Level 2? [DOCX, 18 MB] What is Alert Level 2? [PDF, 2.8 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 10 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Going to your appointments [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Going to your appointments [PDF, 1.2 MB] Going to work [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Going to work [PDF, 923 KB] Travelling in New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Travelling in New Zealand [PDF, 1.1 MB] What is Alert Level 3? [DOCX, 18 MB] What is Alert Level 3? [PDF, 4 MB] Alert Level 3 in Auckland [DOCX, 7.3 MB] Alert Level 3 in Auckland [PDF, 1.9 MB] Golden rules for businesses [DOCX, 8.7 MB] Golden rules for businesses [PDF, 1.4 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [DOCX, 15 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [PDF, 3.6 MB] Using healthcare services [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Using healthcare services [PDF, 1.6 MB] What is Alert Level 4? [DOCX, 12 MB] What is Alert Level 4? [PDF, 3.9 MB] COVID-19 and Alert Level 4 [DOCX, 7.9 MB] COVID-19 and Alert Level 4 [PDF, 3.6 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [DOCX, 15 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [PDF, 3.6 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [DOCX, 6 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- It is safe to go to school [DOCX, 2.6 MB] It is safe to go to school [PDF, 802 KB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- What is Alert Level 2? [DOCX, 18 MB] What is Alert Level 2? [PDF, 2.8 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 10 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Going to your appointments [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Going to your appointments [PDF, 1.2 MB] Going to work [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Going to work [PDF, 923 KB] Travelling in New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Travelling in New Zealand [PDF, 1.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- What is Alert Level 3? [DOCX, 18 MB] What is Alert Level 3? [PDF, 4 MB] Alert Level 3 in Auckland [DOCX, 7.3 MB] Alert Level 3 in Auckland [PDF, 1.9 MB] Golden rules for businesses [DOCX, 8.7 MB] Golden rules for businesses [PDF, 1.4 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [DOCX, 15 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [PDF, 3.6 MB] Using healthcare services [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Using healthcare services [PDF, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- What is Alert Level 4? [DOCX, 12 MB] What is Alert Level 4? [PDF, 3.9 MB] COVID-19 and Alert Level 4 [DOCX, 7.9 MB] COVID-19 and Alert Level 4 [PDF, 3.6 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [DOCX, 15 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [PDF, 3.6 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [DOCX, 6 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) About the Alert Levels (Easy Read) About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) About the Alert Levels (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Easy Read Looking after your community (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [DOCX, 6 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5.7 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.5 MB] What are locations of interest? [DOCX, 3 MB] What are locations of interest? [PDF, 1.3 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.1 MB] What happens if your test says you have COVID-19? [DOCX, 4.4 MB] What happens if your test says you have COVID-19? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you are told to stay at home or self-isolate [DOCX, 8.6 MB] What to do if you are told to stay at home or self-isolate [PDF, 3.2 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering? [DOCX, 9.4 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering? [PDF, 1.9 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [PDF, 1.4 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [DOCX, 6 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5.7 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.5 MB] What are locations of interest? [DOCX, 3 MB] What are locations of interest? [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.1 MB] What happens if your test says you have COVID-19? [DOCX, 4.4 MB] What happens if your test says you have COVID-19? [PDF, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you are told to stay at home or self-isolate [DOCX, 8.6 MB] What to do if you are told to stay at home or self-isolate [PDF, 3.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- When do you need to wear a face covering? [DOCX, 9.4 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering? [PDF, 1.9 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) About the Alert Levels (Easy Read) About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) About the Alert Levels (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Easy Read Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] What is quarantine-free travel? [DOCX, 1.9 MB] What is quarantine-free travel? [PDF, 900 KB] Travelling from Australia to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Travelling from Australia to New Zealand [PDF, 1.6 MB] Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free [DOCX, 5.5 MB] Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free [PDF, 1.2 MB] Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free [DOCX, 4.7 MB] Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free [PDF, 1 MB] Travelling quarantine-free from Niue to New Zealand [DOCX, 5.3 MB] Travelling quarantine-free from Niue to New Zealand [PDF, 1.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] --- Section Separator --- What is quarantine-free travel? [DOCX, 1.9 MB] What is quarantine-free travel? [PDF, 900 KB] Travelling from Australia to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Travelling from Australia to New Zealand [PDF, 1.6 MB] Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free [DOCX, 5.5 MB] Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free [PDF, 1.2 MB] Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free [DOCX, 4.7 MB] Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free [PDF, 1 MB] Travelling quarantine-free from Niue to New Zealand [DOCX, 5.3 MB] Travelling quarantine-free from Niue to New Zealand [PDF, 1.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) About the Alert Levels (Easy Read) About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) About the Alert Levels (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Easy Read Getting support (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [DOCX, 15 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [PDF, 3.6 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble — Alert Level 3 factsheet [DOCX, 2.5 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble — Alert Level 3 factsheet [PDF, 1.3 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [DOCX, 15 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [PDF, 3.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble — Alert Level 3 factsheet [DOCX, 2.5 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble — Alert Level 3 factsheet [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) About the Alert Levels (Easy Read) About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) About the Alert Levels (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Large Print and audio Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. --- Section Separator --- Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines Find out more about the COVID-19 virus Find out what you need to do if you are travelling quarantine-free to and from New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Information in about what you need to do at the different Alert Levels Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19 Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Large Print and audio About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] The Delta variant of COVID-19 [DOCX, 536 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.1 MB] The Delta variant of COVID-19 [MP3, 870 KB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] The Delta variant of COVID-19 [DOCX, 536 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.1 MB] The Delta variant of COVID-19 [MP3, 870 KB] --- Section Separator --- Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) About the Alert Levels (Large Print and audio) Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) Getting support (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) About the Alert Levels (Large Print and audio) Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) Getting support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Large Print and audio About the Alert Levels (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 1 [DOCX, 92 KB] Living at Alert Level 1 [MP3, 15 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 542 KB] Living at Alert Level 2 [MP3, 2.4 MB] Living at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 541 KB] Auckland at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 521 KB] Living at Alert Level 3 [MP3, 2.3 MB] Auckland at Alert Level 3 [WAV, 26 MB] Living at Alert Level 4 [DOCX, 535 KB] Living at Alert Level 4 [MP3, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 1 [DOCX, 92 KB] Living at Alert Level 1 [MP3, 15 MB] --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 542 KB] Living at Alert Level 2 [MP3, 2.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 541 KB] Auckland at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 521 KB] Living at Alert Level 3 [MP3, 2.3 MB] Auckland at Alert Level 3 [WAV, 26 MB] --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 4 [DOCX, 535 KB] Living at Alert Level 4 [MP3, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) About the Alert Levels (Large Print and audio) Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) Getting support (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) About the Alert Levels (Large Print and audio) Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) Getting support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Large Print and audio COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 166 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [DOCX, 149 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [DOCX, 79 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [MP3, 406 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [MP3, 583 KB] Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 166 KB] How to get your vaccination if you are in Group 3 [DOCX, 72 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [DOCX, 79 KB] How to get your vaccination if you are in Group 3 [MP3, 371 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [MP3, 583 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card fact sheet [DOCX, 160 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [DOCX, 163 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card — opening announcement [MP3, 82 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card — fact sheet [MP3, 312 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card — closing announcement [MP3, 86 KB] --- Section Separator --- Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 166 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [DOCX, 149 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [DOCX, 79 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [MP3, 406 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [MP3, 583 KB] --- Section Separator --- Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 166 KB] How to get your vaccination if you are in Group 3 [DOCX, 72 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [DOCX, 79 KB] How to get your vaccination if you are in Group 3 [MP3, 371 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [MP3, 583 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccine record card fact sheet [DOCX, 160 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [DOCX, 163 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card — opening announcement [MP3, 82 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card — fact sheet [MP3, 312 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card — closing announcement [MP3, 86 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) About the Alert Levels (Large Print and audio) Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) Getting support (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) About the Alert Levels (Large Print and audio) Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) Getting support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Large Print and audio Getting support (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 72 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 72 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) About the Alert Levels (Large Print and audio) Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) Getting support (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) About the Alert Levels (Large Print and audio) Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) Getting support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Large Print and audio Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Who should get tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 66 KB] Getting testing for COVID-19 [DOCX, 535 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 68 KB] Who should get tested for COVID-19 [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 3 MB] Isolation advice for COVID-19 contacts [DOCX, 535 KB] Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 2.2 MB] Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 537 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 1.7 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Who should get tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 66 KB] Getting testing for COVID-19 [DOCX, 535 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 68 KB] Who should get tested for COVID-19 [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Isolation advice for COVID-19 contacts [DOCX, 535 KB] --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 537 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 1.7 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) About the Alert Levels (Large Print and audio) Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) Getting support (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) About the Alert Levels (Large Print and audio) Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) Getting support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats Large Print and audio Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- As of 24 July 2021, quarantine-free travel with Australia has been suspended . Quarantine-free travel with Australia is suspended [DOCX, 41 KB] Quarantine-free travel with Australia is suspended [MP3, 983 KB] --- Section Separator --- As of 24 July 2021, quarantine-free travel with Australia has been suspended . --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel with Australia is suspended [DOCX, 41 KB] Quarantine-free travel with Australia is suspended [MP3, 983 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) About the Alert Levels (Large Print and audio) Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) Getting support (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) About the Alert Levels (Large Print and audio) Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) Getting support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find out more about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you get your vaccine Find out what you need to do in NZSL if you are travelling to and from New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Find out what you need to do at the different Alert Levels Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out what support you can get to look after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language About COVID-19 (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Getting the right information (external link) The Delta variant (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Getting the right information (external link) The Delta variant (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language About COVID-19 (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Travel to and from New Zealand (NZSL) Information about the Alert Levels (NZSL) Looking after your community (NZSL) Getting support (NZSL) About COVID-19 (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Travel to and from New Zealand (NZSL) Information about the Alert Levels (NZSL) Looking after your community (NZSL) Getting support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines (external link) COVID-19 vaccine simplified guide (external link) Change to the recommended vaccine dose gap (external link) Impact of the vaccine on our borders (external link) Making sure New Zealand's COVID-19 vaccines are safe (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines (external link) COVID-19 vaccine simplified guide (external link) Change to the recommended vaccine dose gap (external link) Impact of the vaccine on our borders (external link) --- Section Separator --- Making sure New Zealand's COVID-19 vaccines are safe (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language About COVID-19 (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Travel to and from New Zealand (NZSL) Information about the Alert Levels (NZSL) Looking after your community (NZSL) Getting support (NZSL) About COVID-19 (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Travel to and from New Zealand (NZSL) Information about the Alert Levels (NZSL) Looking after your community (NZSL) Getting support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Getting support (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Services and support (external link) Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It is OK to ask for help (external link) It is OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) --- Section Separator --- Services and support (external link) --- Section Separator --- Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It is OK to ask for help (external link) It is OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) --- Section Separator --- What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language About COVID-19 (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Travel to and from New Zealand (NZSL) Information about the Alert Levels (NZSL) Looking after your community (NZSL) Getting support (NZSL) About COVID-19 (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Travel to and from New Zealand (NZSL) Information about the Alert Levels (NZSL) Looking after your community (NZSL) Getting support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Information about the Alert Levels (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) Auckland is still at Alert Level 3 (12 October 2021) (external link) Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) Living at Alert Level 4 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Auckland is still at Alert Level 3 (12 October 2021) (external link) Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 4 (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language About COVID-19 (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Travel to and from New Zealand (NZSL) Information about the Alert Levels (NZSL) Looking after your community (NZSL) Getting support (NZSL) About COVID-19 (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Travel to and from New Zealand (NZSL) Information about the Alert Levels (NZSL) Looking after your community (NZSL) Getting support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Looking after your community (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Face coverings and masks (external link) Why we wear a mask or face covering on planes and public transport (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Self-isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Simple steps you can take (external link) Getting tested (external link) Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) The NZ COVID Tracer app: how contact tracing keeps us safe (external link) Bluetooth Tracing: Early Warning (external link) Locations of interest (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face coverings and masks (external link) Why we wear a mask or face covering on planes and public transport (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Self-isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Simple steps you can take (external link) --- Section Separator --- Getting tested (external link) Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app: how contact tracing keeps us safe (external link) Bluetooth Tracing: Early Warning (external link) Locations of interest (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language About COVID-19 (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Travel to and from New Zealand (NZSL) Information about the Alert Levels (NZSL) Looking after your community (NZSL) Getting support (NZSL) About COVID-19 (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Travel to and from New Zealand (NZSL) Information about the Alert Levels (NZSL) Looking after your community (NZSL) Getting support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Iwi and communities Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Travel to and from New Zealand (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- How does quarantine-free travel work? (external link) Quarantine-free travel from Australia has been suspended (external link) Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free (external link) Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free (external link) --- Section Separator --- How does quarantine-free travel work? (external link) Quarantine-free travel from Australia has been suspended (external link) Travelling to the Cook Islands quarantine-free (external link) Travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language About COVID-19 (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Travel to and from New Zealand (NZSL) Information about the Alert Levels (NZSL) Looking after your community (NZSL) Getting support (NZSL) About COVID-19 (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Travel to and from New Zealand (NZSL) Information about the Alert Levels (NZSL) Looking after your community (NZSL) Getting support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
This section contains information specifically for disabled people. Information in alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. Check our the free services and resources available to you --- Section Separator --- Residential care continues. All services should follow Alert Level 2 guidance. Personal protective equipment (PPE) guidance is to be followed. Extra consideration will be given to how at-risk resident’s health will be protected. Essential personal care services, such as toileting, washing and feeding, and home help, such as cleaning, are available. Infection prevention and control measures, such as face covering, must be followed for essential care services that require close physical contact. Staff movement should be minimised between homes. Equipment and modification services are available following Alert Level 2 rules. General family visits and non-essential service visits are allowed. However, providers will take precautions and manage visitors in a controlled way to minimise the risk of COVID-19 transmission to residents and staff. Visitors must wear face coverings and follow the mandatory record keeping requirement when visiting a residential facility. Planned and urgent respite care within aged residential care is available. Limited facility-based respite services for disabled people are allowed. Facilities will contact disabled people and families and whānau to let them know how they will operate following Alert Level 2 rules. Day programmes, health promotion activities and other community supports can operate if done safely and following limits and rules for the gathering of people. --- Section Separator --- If services can be provided (including digitally) within Alert Level restrictions, they are contractually required to do so. Disability residential care and aged residential care must continue to be available. Face coverings are recommended for people who receive home care services if they can tolerate it. Essential personal care services, such as toileting, washing and feeding, should be provided as usual. Essential home help, such as house cleaning, is or should be available where appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) is used. Planned respite services will be suspended, but urgent respite care may be provided. Essential supported living services can continue. Support persons are permitted under right 8 of the Health and Disability Code. For aged residential care, hospices and disability residential care, family visits are not permitted Family visits on compassionate grounds will be considered, such as in a palliative situation, on a case-by-case basis, subject to public health advice and provider assessment and decision. For other disability services (including Day Services, Disability Information Advisory Services, Child Development Services etc) non-essential support should be provided in alternative ways (for example virtually, remotely) essential visits are allowed under Alert Level 3 if this can be done safely and following Alert Level guidance. Essential equipment that can be delivered to a person's home and safely set up by the people in that home can be provided. More complex equipment will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Urgent housing modifications that can be done safely can go ahead. Vehicle modification requests will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Services such as social connection, health promotion and education activities are suspended, however other non-contact ways of providing this support are encouraged, such as Zoom or by phone. --- Section Separator --- You legally must wear a face covering on public transport, including planes, at all Alert Levels. At Alert Level 2, 3 and 4, you legally must wear a face covering if you are a customer or an employee involving customer contact at a business or service operating at these alert levels. Wear a face covering However, we know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. You can request a card from the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ by contacting them on 04 801 9100 or at info@dpa.org.nz --- Section Separator --- Keeping track of where you have been can help with fast contract tracing to prevent any spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Most businesses must have more than one way for people to record their visit, especially for people who are not able to scan QR codes. If you cannot use the NZ COVID Tracer app, it is still important to keep track of where you go and who you visit. You can keep a record in a way that works for you, such as by: using a NZ COVID Tracer booklet keeping detailed hand-written notes using a recording device, such as a digital voice recorder or a mobile phone sending yourself an instant message or a text message taking a photo of any business you visit. Download or order an NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- Group 1, 2 and 3 vaccinations are underway COVID-19 vaccine: How does the vaccine work? --- Section Separator --- Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. How to get your vaccination --- Section Separator --- A new team has been established to support disabled people to get their COVID-19 vaccines. This team can support people with a range of disabilities including: blind, deafblind and low vision deaf and hard of hearing physical impairments intellectual impairments neuro diverse long-term health conditions Disabled people and their carers can receive tailored advice and support for booking their vaccination appointments. This includes assistance with coordinating transport to and from the vaccination site and arranging the necessary support and accommodations during the appointment. It is free to call, and the team is available 8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday. Call 0800 28 29 26 and push 2 to speak to one of the team. --- Section Separator --- Under the Health Code, you have the right to be told everything about your health and the care that you are receiving. You must give informed consent before any procedure takes place, including getting a vaccine. Before asking for your consent, your doctor or healthcare provider should clearly explain to you: what happens during the procedure what other options there might be what you can expect after the procedure any risks that may be associated with the procedure. You can also ask any questions that you may have about the procedure. For more information on informed consent, read ’Right 7’ of the Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers’ Rights. Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers’ Rights (external link) --- Section Separator --- Supported decision-making is considered best practice by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with a Disability (UNCRPD), of which New Zealand is a signatory. Supported decision-making is recognised as a right for everyone in New Zealand. Supported decision-making is a way for people to make their own decisions based on their will and preferences, so they have control of their life. It ensures the person who needs support is at the centre of all decisions that concern them. Supported decision-making is different from ‘substitute decision-making’. Substitute decision-making is when someone else makes decisions for a person, including making decisions in the person’s best interests. Substitute decision-making has often been used: informally, by family or friends, or formally, such as an Enduring Power of Attorney or by service providers. However, now there is a move to supported decision-making. Supported decision-making | msd.govt.nz (external link) Ministry of Health COVID-19 vaccination program: Guidance and practical tools for supporting disabled people with decision-making and consent [PDF, 1.5 MB] (external link) --- Section Separator --- In New Zealand, when you use a health or disability service you have rights. The rights are called the Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers' Rights or "the Code". You have the right to: be treated with respect be treated fairly dignity and independence have good care and support that fits your needs be told things in a way that you understand be told everything you need to know about your care and support make choices about your care and support have support decide if you want to be part of training, teaching, or research make a complaint. More information on your rights | hdc.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find information about COVID-19 in alternate formats: New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille
Home Iwi and communities Information for Māori Guidance for marae --- Section Separator --- Make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call a doctor, iwi health provider or call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 or to get tested for COVID-19. Keep communal areas and frequently touched surfaces clean, such as paepae, areas where kai is prepared and served, bathrooms, tables, chairs and door handles. Make sure handwashing facilities are available and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If people cannot maintain physical distance from those they do not know, we encourage wearing a face covering. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Marae should be prepared for changes in Alert Levels. We recommend having a plan in place for how the marae can operate and keep whānau safe during Alert Levels 2, 3 or 4. At Alert Level 2, marae may open but gatherings are restricted to 100  people indoors and outdoors. At Alert Level 3, marae can only open for tangihanga, weddings or civil unions. These are limited to 10 people. At Alert Level 4, marae will be closed. There are no restrictions on gatherings at marae at Alert Level 1. Hui, tangihanga, hura kōhatu, huringa tau and other gatherings can go ahead. It is important to stay vigilant, even at Alert Level 1. Kia mataara tātou. Continue to provide appropriate handwashing facilities and make sure attendees keep up good handwashing practices. Keep frequently touched surfaces and objects clean, and make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold or flu symptoms, contact a doctor, Māori health provider or call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 to get tested for COVID-19. The person organising a gathering at a marae must keep a record of the  attendees. Marae d o not need to keep contact tracing records if everyone at the gathering knows each other. But it is a good idea to keep a guest list to help with contact tracing if it is needed. The best way to keep contact tracing records is by asking attendees to scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae can open and hold gatherings at Alert Level 2, with up to 100 people in any indoor or outdoor defined space. Defined spaces (external link) The 100 person limit does not include workers providing services to a gathering. A marae can have multiple groups of people if they have more than one defined space, as long as there is no contact between them in or around the marae. This includes separate wharepaku and entrances for each group. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet Alert Level 2 restrictions. Tangihanga at Alert Level 2 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 2 Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 2 Faith-based gatherings at Alert Level 2 At all gatherings, keep each other safe by avoiding greetings that require close physical contact — for example, hongi, harirū, kissing or hugging with people you do not live with or who are outside your whānau. Guests can mix freely with people outside their whānau — you do not need to physically distance. You do not need to wear a face covering when visiting a marae, but we encourage you to wear one if possible. Before any gathering, clean all surfaces where kai will be prepared and served including benches, tables and chairs. Serve kai on plates in individual portions for each person. Try to avoid buffets or platters where people have to share utensils. The organiser of a gathering at a marae legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. You do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae will need to implement a Health and Safety plan and other measures. The Health and Safety plan must be displayed and communicated to all attendees. Contact your local hauora or Māori health provider for help with health and safety. Marae can take bookings for events such as conferences or business meetings at Alert Level 2. If a business or service hires a marae exclusively for an event, guests can mix freely, and they do not need to physically distance. People serving food and drinks must wear a face covering. Guests do not need to be seated at tables to be served. At Alert Level 3 up to 10 people are allowed at marae, but only for tangihanga or wedding and civil union services. The 10-people limit excludes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, as well as representatives of the hāhi who are attending. If you are attending a tangihanga or a wedding at a marae, we recommend you: keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing and hugging wear a face covering. Food or drink cannot be served. Tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 The organiser of a gathering at a marae legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. You do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. All marae are closed at Alert Level 4. We all need to stay home in our bubbles to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. Marae can assist whānau via email, text and phone contact to ensure they have access to cultural and technology support if needed. Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please do not share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- Make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call a doctor, iwi health provider or call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 or to get tested for COVID-19. Keep communal areas and frequently touched surfaces clean, such as paepae, areas where kai is prepared and served, bathrooms, tables, chairs and door handles. Make sure handwashing facilities are available and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If people cannot maintain physical distance from those they do not know, we encourage wearing a face covering. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Marae should be prepared for changes in Alert Levels. We recommend having a plan in place for how the marae can operate and keep whānau safe during Alert Levels 2, 3 or 4. At Alert Level 2, marae may open but gatherings are restricted to 100  people indoors and outdoors. At Alert Level 3, marae can only open for tangihanga, weddings or civil unions. These are limited to 10 people. At Alert Level 4, marae will be closed. --- Section Separator --- There are no restrictions on gatherings at marae at Alert Level 1. Hui, tangihanga, hura kōhatu, huringa tau and other gatherings can go ahead. It is important to stay vigilant, even at Alert Level 1. Kia mataara tātou. Continue to provide appropriate handwashing facilities and make sure attendees keep up good handwashing practices. Keep frequently touched surfaces and objects clean, and make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold or flu symptoms, contact a doctor, Māori health provider or call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 to get tested for COVID-19. The person organising a gathering at a marae must keep a record of the  attendees. Marae d o not need to keep contact tracing records if everyone at the gathering knows each other. But it is a good idea to keep a guest list to help with contact tracing if it is needed. The best way to keep contact tracing records is by asking attendees to scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster --- Section Separator --- Marae can open and hold gatherings at Alert Level 2, with up to 100 people in any indoor or outdoor defined space. Defined spaces (external link) The 100 person limit does not include workers providing services to a gathering. A marae can have multiple groups of people if they have more than one defined space, as long as there is no contact between them in or around the marae. This includes separate wharepaku and entrances for each group. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet Alert Level 2 restrictions. Tangihanga at Alert Level 2 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 2 Meeting friends and whānau at Alert Level 2 Faith-based gatherings at Alert Level 2 At all gatherings, keep each other safe by avoiding greetings that require close physical contact — for example, hongi, harirū, kissing or hugging with people you do not live with or who are outside your whānau. Guests can mix freely with people outside their whānau — you do not need to physically distance. You do not need to wear a face covering when visiting a marae, but we encourage you to wear one if possible. Before any gathering, clean all surfaces where kai will be prepared and served including benches, tables and chairs. Serve kai on plates in individual portions for each person. Try to avoid buffets or platters where people have to share utensils. The organiser of a gathering at a marae legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. You do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae will need to implement a Health and Safety plan and other measures. The Health and Safety plan must be displayed and communicated to all attendees. Contact your local hauora or Māori health provider for help with health and safety. Marae can take bookings for events such as conferences or business meetings at Alert Level 2. If a business or service hires a marae exclusively for an event, guests can mix freely, and they do not need to physically distance. People serving food and drinks must wear a face covering. Guests do not need to be seated at tables to be served. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 up to 10 people are allowed at marae, but only for tangihanga or wedding and civil union services. The 10-people limit excludes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, as well as representatives of the hāhi who are attending. If you are attending a tangihanga or a wedding at a marae, we recommend you: keep 2 metres away from people you do not live with avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing and hugging wear a face covering. Food or drink cannot be served. Tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Weddings and civil unions at Alert Level 3 The organiser of a gathering at a marae legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. You do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- All marae are closed at Alert Level 4. We all need to stay home in our bubbles to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. Marae can assist whānau via email, text and phone contact to ensure they have access to cultural and technology support if needed. --- Section Separator --- Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please do not share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- Guidance for marae
How to improve community resilience, connect communities, and how to prepare for an emergency as a community. Buying local is a great way to reconnect with your community and support nearby New Zealand businesses. Help local tourism businesses by getting out and seeing New Zealand. Financial support is available for community groups and organisations. --- Section Separator --- How to improve community resilience, connect communities, and how to prepare for an emergency as a community. Buying local is a great way to reconnect with your community and support nearby New Zealand businesses. Help local tourism businesses by getting out and seeing New Zealand. Financial support is available for community groups and organisations.
Home Iwi and communities Support your community Buy local to support locals --- Section Separator --- Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: check out the shops in your area buy produce that has been locally grown browse local online sites keep an eye out for the New Zealand Made kiwi trademark. The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Every purchase you make helps to keep people employed, puts money back in people’s pockets and helps get our communities humming again. You can: check out the shops in your area buy produce that has been locally grown browse local online sites keep an eye out for the New Zealand Made kiwi trademark. The ShopKiwi website has a list of New Zealand owned and operated businesses to encourage us all to buy local. If you have a business, you can register it on ShopKiwi for free. Buy local on the ShopKiwi website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Buy local to support locals See your own backyard Community heroes Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Support your community Community wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It is natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Learn more about resilience from the Social Wellbeing Agency (external link) How to find help and resources to look after your mental wellbeing Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it is important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neighbourhood Support group (external link) When we get to know our neighbours we are more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) --- Section Separator --- Many of us are beginning to understand that life will be very different from what we once knew. It is natural for us to feel anxious about what will happen tomorrow, next week or next month. The uncertainty can be overwhelming at times, especially if you are trying to build up your resilience. Learn more about resilience from the Social Wellbeing Agency (external link) How to find help and resources to look after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Many of us have connected with our neighbours during the COVID-19 pandemic and it is important to keep those connections. You can get your community together by making or joining a Neighbourhood Support group. Neighbourhood Support is a nationwide community-led movement that brings people and neighbourhoods together to create safe, resilient and connected communities. How to join a Neighbourhood Support group (external link) --- Section Separator --- When we get to know our neighbours we are more likely to look out for each other during an emergency. Make a plan together and help your friends, family, whānau and community get prepared for emergencies. How to make a community response plan and connect with your community (external link) --- Section Separator --- Volunteers create positive change for human rights, faith communities, health, education, sports and recreation, social services, arts and culture, emergency services, the environment and conservation, animal welfare and community development. Volunteering New Zealand is an association of volunteer centres and national and regional organisations with a commitment to volunteering. Apply online or if there is a specific organisation or cause you are interested in supporting, check their website for information on the support they are currently seeking. How to get involved in volunteering (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Buy local to support locals See your own backyard Community heroes Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Support your community See your own backyard --- Section Separator --- A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You will be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) --- Section Separator --- A way you can help the country recover is by seeing it. You will be getting a break while getting to know your own backyard and helping local tourism businesses get back on their feet. Across New Zealand, you can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. There are many natural places to explore, whatever your budget and timeframe — from your local beach, longer day trips to the bush and ski trips to the mountains. Find My Adventure has over 500 tracks and trails across New Zealand to walk, bike, run or ride your horse. Find my adventure (external link) 100% Pure New Zealand has holiday ideas across New Zealand. You can find everything from untamed wilderness to rich culture. Ideas for your next holiday (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community wellbeing Buy local to support locals See your own backyard Community heroes Financial support for communities and clubs
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Honoa mai ki ngā whakaohiti mō ngā pārongo KŌWHEORI-19 kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori --- Section Separator --- Anei ngā whakahoutanga KOWHEORI-19 hou rawa: Te momo Delta The Delta variant Ngā ārai kanohi me ngā maruhā Face coverings and masks Ngā tāngata i tātata Close contacts Ngā tāngata noa i pātata Casual plus contacts Ngā tāngata i pātata Casual contacts --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te tāpui i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapua he kōrero me aha koe ina haere atu ana i Aotearoa, hoki mai ana rānei Rapua he kōrero atu anō mō te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero me pēhea te tiaki i a koutou ko tō hapori mai i te KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero mō te whakatewhatewha pānga me ngā wāhi whaipānga Rapua he kōrero me aha koe i ia Pae Mataara --- Section Separator --- Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Rapua ngā rauemi mō te KOWHEORI-19 i Te Reo Māori
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā āwhinatanga | Available support Te toro atu ki ngā kai, ki ngā mea waiwai rānei | Access to food or essential items --- Section Separator --- Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Mō ngā pouaka kai ohauru haere ki: My Food Bag (external link) ki Hello Fresh (external link) rānei Mō ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha haere ki: Countdown (external link) ki New World (external link) rānei. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Ko te tikanga me pānga kore ngā kawenga, me paetata hoki. Mēnā kei te kawe rawa koe, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti, me te mau ārai waha. Mēnā ka kawea atu ō rawa, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti i te hunga kawe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, horoia me te patuero i o ringa kia mutu te whakaputu i ngā kai. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko pūtea KOWHEORI-19 i te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 ki te kite i ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe. Haere ki: www.workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (mō ētahi atu mōhiohio) my.msd.govt.nz (external link) (hei tono tuihono ki Te Hiranga Tangata) 0800 559 009 (MSD Waea Whānui) 0800 552 002 (MSD Kaumātua 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Ngā Ākonga StudyLink) COVID-19 Financial Support Tool (te rauemi PUtea Tautoko KOWHEORI-19) Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Mō ngā pouaka kai ohauru haere ki: My Food Bag (external link) ki Hello Fresh (external link) rānei Mō ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha haere ki: Countdown (external link) ki New World (external link) rānei. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Ko te tikanga me pānga kore ngā kawenga, me paetata hoki. Mēnā kei te kawe rawa koe, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti, me te mau ārai waha. Mēnā ka kawea atu ō rawa, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti i te hunga kawe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, horoia me te patuero i o ringa kia mutu te whakaputu i ngā kai. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko pūtea KOWHEORI-19 i te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 ki te kite i ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe. Haere ki: www.workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (mō ētahi atu mōhiohio) my.msd.govt.nz (external link) (hei tono tuihono ki Te Hiranga Tangata) 0800 559 009 (MSD Waea Whānui) 0800 552 002 (MSD Kaumātua 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Ngā Ākonga StudyLink) COVID-19 Financial Support Tool (te rauemi PUtea Tautoko KOWHEORI-19) Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā āwhinatanga | Available support He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Kua whakaritea e Te Hiranga Tangata he Tauwaea Whakaara ( 0800 559 009 ) hei manaaki i ngā hapori kua raru nei. Tērā ētahi āwhinatanga kaipakihi a Te Hiranga Tangata hei torotoro. Mēnā kua kīia kia noho whakamohoao ō kaimahi, ā, kāore hoki e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ka taea e koe te tono pūtea hei utu tonu i a rātou. He pārongo mō tētahi Pūtea Āwhina hou hei āwhina i ngā kaipakihi kua heke nei ā rātou moni whiwhi i runga i te huringa o ngā Pae Mataara Mate Korona. Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto – E wātea ana te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto Mate Korona ki ngā kaipakihi, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, hei āwhina ki te utu i ō rātou kaimahi kāore nei e taea te mahi i te kāinga i a rātou e tatari ana kia whakahokia mai ō rātou whakamātaunga Mate Korona. Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā – E whai wāhi ana ki te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā ko ngā kaimahi e rite ana, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, kāore e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ā, kua pāngia nei e te momo māuiui, hei tauira, kua pāngia e te Mate Korona, kua kīia ai rānei he ‘hoa tata’, ā, me noho whakamohoao ki te kāinga mō ngā rā 14. Pūtea Whakaara – He mea āwhina te Pūtea Whakaara a Te Tari Tāke i ngā kaipakihi kua raru nei i te nui haere o ngā putanga Pae Mataara. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Āwhina, te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto, me te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Tari Tāke (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Whakaara. He āwhinatanga kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata, whakapā atu ki te pokapū i 0800 559 009 me MyMSD E puare ana ngā pokapū o Te Hiranga Tangata i ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2, e katia ana i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4. Ka whakahaeretia ā-waeahia ngā whakaritenga i raro i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4, i ngā wā e rite ana. Ka rite tonu ngā whakaritenga mō ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2. Ka utua tonutia ngā utu e rite ana e Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka whakamāramatia ngā utu e wātea ana i te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) . Kei te wātea hoki ēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. --- Section Separator --- Kua whakaritea e Te Hiranga Tangata he Tauwaea Whakaara ( 0800 559 009 ) hei manaaki i ngā hapori kua raru nei. Tērā ētahi āwhinatanga kaipakihi a Te Hiranga Tangata hei torotoro. Mēnā kua kīia kia noho whakamohoao ō kaimahi, ā, kāore hoki e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ka taea e koe te tono pūtea hei utu tonu i a rātou. He pārongo mō tētahi Pūtea Āwhina hou hei āwhina i ngā kaipakihi kua heke nei ā rātou moni whiwhi i runga i te huringa o ngā Pae Mataara Mate Korona. Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto – E wātea ana te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto Mate Korona ki ngā kaipakihi, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, hei āwhina ki te utu i ō rātou kaimahi kāore nei e taea te mahi i te kāinga i a rātou e tatari ana kia whakahokia mai ō rātou whakamātaunga Mate Korona. Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā – E whai wāhi ana ki te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā ko ngā kaimahi e rite ana, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, kāore e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ā, kua pāngia nei e te momo māuiui, hei tauira, kua pāngia e te Mate Korona, kua kīia ai rānei he ‘hoa tata’, ā, me noho whakamohoao ki te kāinga mō ngā rā 14. Pūtea Whakaara – He mea āwhina te Pūtea Whakaara a Te Tari Tāke i ngā kaipakihi kua raru nei i te nui haere o ngā putanga Pae Mataara. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Āwhina, te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto, me te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Tari Tāke (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Whakaara. He āwhinatanga kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata, whakapā atu ki te pokapū i 0800 559 009 me MyMSD E puare ana ngā pokapū o Te Hiranga Tangata i ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2, e katia ana i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4. Ka whakahaeretia ā-waeahia ngā whakaritenga i raro i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4, i ngā wā e rite ana. Ka rite tonu ngā whakaritenga mō ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2. Ka utua tonutia ngā utu e rite ana e Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka whakamāramatia ngā utu e wātea ana i te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) . Kei te wātea hoki ēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā āwhinatanga | Available support Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families --- Section Separator --- Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: Me noho tūhono tonu ki ngā hoa me te whānau - he mea nui tēnei mō tō tātou oranga, ā, he āwhina kia noho haumaru ake, kia iti iho te pōkaikaha, me te iti iho te anipā. Me whāki i ō kare ā-roto - he rongo māori noa te rongo i te wairua haukerekere, pōkaikaha, anipā, māharahara, mataku rānei. Whakawāteatia he wā e aro ai koe, e whakaputa ai koe i ō kare ā-roto. Me whai tonu i ngā hātepe mēnā ka taea - me ngana ki te hanga i ngā whakaritenga auau i tō tauoranga, ā, kaua e whakapiki i ngā ritenga hauora-kore pēnei i te kai hāneanea, te inu, te kai paipa me te rehutupeka. Tirohia ētahi atu tāngata e hiahia āwhina ana pea - mā te toro atu o te ringa ki te hunga e pōkaikahatia ana pea, e māharahara ana rānei ka āwhina pea i a kōrua tahi. Whakawhāitihia tō wā tuihono - kiakotahi, kia rua rānei ō tirohanga ki ngā arapāho me ngā pae pāpori i te rā. E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro He pai noa iho te tono āwhina. I a tātau ka anga whakamua ana, he tāngata, he rōpū anō kei reira hei tautoko i a koe. Anei ngā tūmomo tohutohu, āwhina, tautoko hoki mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe. Mēnā kāore koe i te mātau ki te reo Ingarihi, ka āhei koe ki te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina waea atu ki te nuinga o ngā tari kāwanatanga. --- Section Separator --- Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: Me noho tūhono tonu ki ngā hoa me te whānau - he mea nui tēnei mō tō tātou oranga, ā, he āwhina kia noho haumaru ake, kia iti iho te pōkaikaha, me te iti iho te anipā. Me whāki i ō kare ā-roto - he rongo māori noa te rongo i te wairua haukerekere, pōkaikaha, anipā, māharahara, mataku rānei. Whakawāteatia he wā e aro ai koe, e whakaputa ai koe i ō kare ā-roto. Me whai tonu i ngā hātepe mēnā ka taea - me ngana ki te hanga i ngā whakaritenga auau i tō tauoranga, ā, kaua e whakapiki i ngā ritenga hauora-kore pēnei i te kai hāneanea, te inu, te kai paipa me te rehutupeka. Tirohia ētahi atu tāngata e hiahia āwhina ana pea - mā te toro atu o te ringa ki te hunga e pōkaikahatia ana pea, e māharahara ana rānei ka āwhina pea i a kōrua tahi. Whakawhāitihia tō wā tuihono - kiakotahi, kia rua rānei ō tirohanga ki ngā arapāho me ngā pae pāpori i te rā. E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro --- Section Separator --- He pai noa iho te tono āwhina. I a tātau ka anga whakamua ana, he tāngata, he rōpū anō kei reira hei tautoko i a koe. Anei ngā tūmomo tohutohu, āwhina, tautoko hoki mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe. Mēnā kāore koe i te mātau ki te reo Ingarihi, ka āhei koe ki te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina waea atu ki te nuinga o ngā tari kāwanatanga. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
He iti iho te mōrea o Ngā Tāngata Noa i Pātata tēnā i Ngā Tāngata i Tātata. He iti iho te mōrea o Ngā Tāngata i Pātata tēnā i Ngā Tāngata Noa i Pātata me Ngā Tāngata i Tātata. --- Section Separator --- He iti iho te mōrea o Ngā Tāngata Noa i Pātata tēnā i Ngā Tāngata i Tātata. He iti iho te mōrea o Ngā Tāngata i Pātata tēnā i Ngā Tāngata Noa i Pātata me Ngā Tāngata i Tātata.
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Ngā tāngata i pātata | Casual contacts --- Section Separator --- Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a koe me waea atu ki Healthline, me haere kia aromatawaihia koe ka noho ki te kāinga tae noa: Ki te wā ka whiwhi otinga e kī ana kāore ia i te mate, ā Mō te 24 haora i muri i te mutunga o ōna tohumate. Kāo, engari anō mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate. Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 pea ko tētahi maremare hou, kino kē atu rānei, te kirikā, hēmanawa, mamae korokoro, heke te hūpē, kua kore rānei e rongo ā-ihu/ā-tāwara mō tētahi wā. Ka pā mai anō pea ki ētahi tāngata te mate tikotiko, ānini māhunga, mamae uaua, whakapairuaki, pōkaikaha, te kārangi rānei. Mēnā kei te uaua te hēhē, waea atu mō te waka tūroro: Waea ki 111 . Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a koe. Mēnā ka pā mai he tohumate ki a koe, me waea atu ki Healthline, me aromatawaihia ka noho ki te kāinga. Kia whakaatu rā anō tō aromatawai kāore koe i te mate Mō te 24 haora i muri i te mutunga o ō tohumate Me noho wehe i ētahi atu i tō kāinga mēnā ka taea. Mō ngā mōhiohio Pokapū Aromatawai me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , haere rānei ki healthpoint.co.nz/covid-19 (external link) Kāore he utu mō ngā aromatawai. Ko te tukanga noa mēnā ka kitea i te aromatawai kei te mate koe ka waea mai te Hauora Tūmatanui. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e rātau me aha koe ā muri ake. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate ka whakamōhiotia atu koe mā te patowaea. Ehara i te mea me aromatawai ētahi atu tāngata o tō whare, me noho ki te kāinga rānei, engari ia mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a rātau. Me waea atu te hunga ka pāngia e ngā tohumate ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a koe me waea atu ki Healthline, me haere kia aromatawaihia koe ka noho ki te kāinga tae noa: Ki te wā ka whiwhi otinga e kī ana kāore ia i te mate, ā Mō te 24 haora i muri i te mutunga o ōna tohumate. --- Section Separator --- Kāo, engari anō mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate. Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 pea ko tētahi maremare hou, kino kē atu rānei, te kirikā, hēmanawa, mamae korokoro, heke te hūpē, kua kore rānei e rongo ā-ihu/ā-tāwara mō tētahi wā. Ka pā mai anō pea ki ētahi tāngata te mate tikotiko, ānini māhunga, mamae uaua, whakapairuaki, pōkaikaha, te kārangi rānei. Mēnā kei te uaua te hēhē, waea atu mō te waka tūroro: Waea ki 111 . Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a koe. Mēnā ka pā mai he tohumate ki a koe, me waea atu ki Healthline, me aromatawaihia ka noho ki te kāinga. Kia whakaatu rā anō tō aromatawai kāore koe i te mate Mō te 24 haora i muri i te mutunga o ō tohumate Me noho wehe i ētahi atu i tō kāinga mēnā ka taea. Mō ngā mōhiohio Pokapū Aromatawai me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , haere rānei ki healthpoint.co.nz/covid-19 (external link) Kāore he utu mō ngā aromatawai. Ko te tukanga noa mēnā ka kitea i te aromatawai kei te mate koe ka waea mai te Hauora Tūmatanui. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e rātau me aha koe ā muri ake. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate ka whakamōhiotia atu koe mā te patowaea. Ehara i te mea me aromatawai ētahi atu tāngata o tō whare, me noho ki te kāinga rānei, engari ia mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a rātau. Me waea atu te hunga ka pāngia e ngā tohumate ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Ngā tāngata noa i pātata | Casual plus contacts --- Section Separator --- Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki te tangata me waea atu ki Healthline, me haere kia aromatawaihia koe ka noho ki te kāinga tae noa: Ki te wā ka whiwhi otinga e kī ana kāore ia i te mate, ā Mō te 24 haora i muri i te mutunga o ōna tohumate. Mēnā i te wāhi pūtake koe i te wā i whakahuatia, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga. Ka taea anake e koe te wehe i te kāinga mēnā kei te haere koe kia aromatawaitia mō te KOWHEORI-19, mēnā rānei ka pā mai he ohotata, ā, kei te noho mōrearea koe. Me haere koe kia aromatawaitia: I muri tonu mai i tō mōhio he tangata koe i tātata I te rā 5 i muri mai o te rā i tae atu koe ki te wāhi pūtake (kia wawe tonu rānei, mēnā kua hipa kē te rima rā). I te wā kei te kāinga koe me noho wehe mai i ētahi atu tāngata i tō whare mēnā ka taea. Ka taea e koe te korikori tinana i waho, engari i tōu whare mēnā ka taea haumarutia wehe mai i ētahi atu. Arā, ko ngā mahi pea pērā i te hikihiki maitai i tō iari, te whakamahi taura pekepeke i tō ara kuhunga rānei. Kāore e uru mai ki tēnei ko ngā mahi i waho atu o tō kāinga, iari rānei pērā i te heri i te kurī ki te hīkoi i te takiwā noho. Mēnā he kaimahi waiwai koe, tē taea e koe te wehe i tō whare ki te haere ki te mahi. Mēnā i te wāhi pūtake koe, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga mō te 5 rā i te iti rawa mai i tō pānga whakamutunga tae noa ki te whakaatu a tō aromatawai rā 5 kāore koe i te mate. Me tirotiro e koe ngā tohumate mō te 14 rā. Me waea atu te hunga ka pāngia e ngā tohumate ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mō ngā mōhiohio Pokapū Aromatawai me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , haere rānei ki healthpoint.co.nz/covid-19 (external link) Mēnā kāore koe i te āhei atu ki tētahi waka tūmataiti mā te whānau, ngā tautoko hapori rānei, me whakapā atu ki tō tari hauora tūmatanui. Kāore he utu mō ngā aromatawai. Ko te tukanga noa mēnā ka kitea i te aromatawai kei te mate koe ka waea mai te Hauora Tūmatanui. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e rātau me aha koe ā muri ake. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate ka whakamōhiotia atu koe mā te patowaea. Me noho wehe koe mai i ētahi atu o te whare ina taea. Kaua rawa e tuari rīhi, kapu, taputapu kai, pera, taora rānei me ētahi atu i tō whare. Me horoi i ō mea ki rō wai hopihopi wera. Ka āhei ngā tāngata katoa o tō whare (hāunga te tangata i tae atu ki te wāhi pūtake) ki te puta atu ki waho engari kaua mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a rātau. Ki te pā mai he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ki tētahi atu, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki Healthline kia aromatawaitia. Me noho ki te kāinga tae noa: Ki te wā ka whiwhi otinga e kī ana kāore ia i te mate, ā Mō te 24 haora i muri i te mutunga o ōna tohumate. Ehara i te mea me aromatawai ētahi atu tāngata o te whare, engari ia mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a rātau. Me waea atu te hunga ka pāngia e ngā tohumate ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mō ngā mōhiohio Pokapū Aromatawai me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , haere rānei ki healthpoint.co.nz/covid-19 (external link) Kāore he utu mō ngā aromatawai. Ko te tukanga noa mēnā ka kitea i te aromatawai kei te mate koe ka waea mai te Hauora Tūmatanui. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e rātau me aha koe ā muri ake. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate ka whakamōhiotia atu koe mā te patowaea. Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 pea ko tētahi maremare hou, kino kē atu rānei, te kirikā, hēmanawa, mamae korokoro, heke te hūpē, kua kore rānei e rongo ā-ihu/ā-tāwara mō tētahi wā. Ka pā mai anō pea ki ētahi tāngata te mate tikotiko, ānini māhunga, mamae uaua, whakapairuaki, pōkaikaha, te kārangi rānei. Ki te pā mai ngā tohumate ki te tangata — ahakoa kua kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate — me wawe te haere kia aromatawaitia, me noho ki te kāinga, ā, me noho wehe i ētahi atu i tō kāinga mēnā ka taea. Me pēnei haere tonu tae noa ki te 24 haora i muri mai i te mutunga o ō tohumate, ā, kia whakaatu rā anō tō aromatawai kāore koe i te mate. Mēnā kei te uaua te hēhē, waea atu mō te waka tūroro: Waea ki 111 . Me mātua noho te tangata i tae atu ki te wāhi pūtake ki te kāinga. Engari anō ki te pā mai he tohumate, ka āhei ētahi atu i tō whare ki te haere ki te hoko kai. Mēnā ka mate koe ki te haere, ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi hoa, he kiritata, he whanaunga rānei kia heria mai ō kai me ō rongoā ki tō kūaha. Engari, kāore koe e āhei ki te kōrero ki a ia, tētahi atu tangata i pā rānei ki a ia i a ia i reira. Ka taea e koe te tono tuihono ngā kai mā ngā toa hokomaha paetata me tā rātau Ratonga Āwhina Whakaarotau. Ka taea te whakarato ngā tōtō kai ki tō kēti, tō kūaha rānei – haere ki familyservices.govt.nz (external link) ki te kimi i tētahi pātaka kai, waea atu rānei ki 0800 890 110 ki te ota i tētahi Kete Tautoko a Whānau Ora. He mea nui tonu mō te hunga he tohumate ō rātau, i tae atu ki tētahi wāhi pūtake, he tangata i tātata, i aromatawaitia rānei mō te KOWHEORI-19 kia kaua rawa e haere ki tētahi kano ārai mate. Waea atu ki 0800 28 29 26 , haere rānei ki bookmyvaccine.nz (external link) ki te whakarite anō i tō wāhui. Rongoā: Mēnā he ohotata, waea atu ki 111 . Mēnā ehara i te ohotata, me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ngā tautoko hauora hinengaro me te oranga: He uaua pea te noho taratahi. E wātea ana he āwhina. Mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko koe, ka taea e koe te kōrero ki tētahi tumu kōrero – me waea atu, me patowaea rānei ki 1737 hei whakamahi i te ratonga ‘Need to Talk?’. He koreutu, ā, e wātea ana i te 24 haora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Me kī he tino tuku tautoko i roto i te reo Ingarihi engari tērā ētahi wā ka taea te tūhono i a koe ki tētahi kaikōrero i tua atu i te reo Ingarihi. Taha pūtea: E wātea ana he tautoko pūtea mā te hunga me noho ki te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19 i Te Manatū Whakahiato Ora i te 7 rā i te wiki, 8am ki te 5pm i 0800 559 009 me Whānau Ora i 0800 875 663 . Mēnā kei a koe tonu tō tamaiti, kua uru tonu ia ki roto i te noho rāhui a tō whare, ā, me mātua whai i aua ture anō o tō whare. Mēnā kāore tō tamaiti i tō taha, ā, ko tō rāhui he hono atu ki tētahi atu, he whānui ake rānei, ka āhei ia ki te noho ki tō taha engari me whai ngā tāngata katoa o tō rāhui i ngā ture o tō whare. Ka āhei tonu koe ki tētahi kaitiaki kia haere ake ki tō kāinga mēnā ko koe anake te tangata e tiakina ana, ā, me mau PPE ia. Kāore ia i te āhei ki te tiaki i ētahi atu tāngata nō whare kē. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki te tangata me waea atu ki Healthline, me haere kia aromatawaihia koe ka noho ki te kāinga tae noa: Ki te wā ka whiwhi otinga e kī ana kāore ia i te mate, ā Mō te 24 haora i muri i te mutunga o ōna tohumate. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā i te wāhi pūtake koe i te wā i whakahuatia, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga. Ka taea anake e koe te wehe i te kāinga mēnā kei te haere koe kia aromatawaitia mō te KOWHEORI-19, mēnā rānei ka pā mai he ohotata, ā, kei te noho mōrearea koe. Me haere koe kia aromatawaitia: I muri tonu mai i tō mōhio he tangata koe i tātata I te rā 5 i muri mai o te rā i tae atu koe ki te wāhi pūtake (kia wawe tonu rānei, mēnā kua hipa kē te rima rā). I te wā kei te kāinga koe me noho wehe mai i ētahi atu tāngata i tō whare mēnā ka taea. Ka taea e koe te korikori tinana i waho, engari i tōu whare mēnā ka taea haumarutia wehe mai i ētahi atu. Arā, ko ngā mahi pea pērā i te hikihiki maitai i tō iari, te whakamahi taura pekepeke i tō ara kuhunga rānei. Kāore e uru mai ki tēnei ko ngā mahi i waho atu o tō kāinga, iari rānei pērā i te heri i te kurī ki te hīkoi i te takiwā noho. Mēnā he kaimahi waiwai koe, tē taea e koe te wehe i tō whare ki te haere ki te mahi. Mēnā i te wāhi pūtake koe, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga mō te 5 rā i te iti rawa mai i tō pānga whakamutunga tae noa ki te whakaatu a tō aromatawai rā 5 kāore koe i te mate. Me tirotiro e koe ngā tohumate mō te 14 rā. Me waea atu te hunga ka pāngia e ngā tohumate ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mō ngā mōhiohio Pokapū Aromatawai me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , haere rānei ki healthpoint.co.nz/covid-19 (external link) Mēnā kāore koe i te āhei atu ki tētahi waka tūmataiti mā te whānau, ngā tautoko hapori rānei, me whakapā atu ki tō tari hauora tūmatanui. Kāore he utu mō ngā aromatawai. Ko te tukanga noa mēnā ka kitea i te aromatawai kei te mate koe ka waea mai te Hauora Tūmatanui. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e rātau me aha koe ā muri ake. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate ka whakamōhiotia atu koe mā te patowaea. Me noho wehe koe mai i ētahi atu o te whare ina taea. Kaua rawa e tuari rīhi, kapu, taputapu kai, pera, taora rānei me ētahi atu i tō whare. Me horoi i ō mea ki rō wai hopihopi wera. Ka āhei ngā tāngata katoa o tō whare (hāunga te tangata i tae atu ki te wāhi pūtake) ki te puta atu ki waho engari kaua mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a rātau. Ki te pā mai he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ki tētahi atu, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki Healthline kia aromatawaitia. Me noho ki te kāinga tae noa: Ki te wā ka whiwhi otinga e kī ana kāore ia i te mate, ā Mō te 24 haora i muri i te mutunga o ōna tohumate. Ehara i te mea me aromatawai ētahi atu tāngata o te whare, engari ia mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a rātau. Me waea atu te hunga ka pāngia e ngā tohumate ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mō ngā mōhiohio Pokapū Aromatawai me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , haere rānei ki healthpoint.co.nz/covid-19 (external link) Kāore he utu mō ngā aromatawai. Ko te tukanga noa mēnā ka kitea i te aromatawai kei te mate koe ka waea mai te Hauora Tūmatanui. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e rātau me aha koe ā muri ake. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate ka whakamōhiotia atu koe mā te patowaea. Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 pea ko tētahi maremare hou, kino kē atu rānei, te kirikā, hēmanawa, mamae korokoro, heke te hūpē, kua kore rānei e rongo ā-ihu/ā-tāwara mō tētahi wā. Ka pā mai anō pea ki ētahi tāngata te mate tikotiko, ānini māhunga, mamae uaua, whakapairuaki, pōkaikaha, te kārangi rānei. Ki te pā mai ngā tohumate ki te tangata — ahakoa kua kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate — me wawe te haere kia aromatawaitia, me noho ki te kāinga, ā, me noho wehe i ētahi atu i tō kāinga mēnā ka taea. Me pēnei haere tonu tae noa ki te 24 haora i muri mai i te mutunga o ō tohumate, ā, kia whakaatu rā anō tō aromatawai kāore koe i te mate. Mēnā kei te uaua te hēhē, waea atu mō te waka tūroro: Waea ki 111 . Me mātua noho te tangata i tae atu ki te wāhi pūtake ki te kāinga. Engari anō ki te pā mai he tohumate, ka āhei ētahi atu i tō whare ki te haere ki te hoko kai. Mēnā ka mate koe ki te haere, ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi hoa, he kiritata, he whanaunga rānei kia heria mai ō kai me ō rongoā ki tō kūaha. Engari, kāore koe e āhei ki te kōrero ki a ia, tētahi atu tangata i pā rānei ki a ia i a ia i reira. Ka taea e koe te tono tuihono ngā kai mā ngā toa hokomaha paetata me tā rātau Ratonga Āwhina Whakaarotau. Ka taea te whakarato ngā tōtō kai ki tō kēti, tō kūaha rānei – haere ki familyservices.govt.nz (external link) ki te kimi i tētahi pātaka kai, waea atu rānei ki 0800 890 110 ki te ota i tētahi Kete Tautoko a Whānau Ora. He mea nui tonu mō te hunga he tohumate ō rātau, i tae atu ki tētahi wāhi pūtake, he tangata i tātata, i aromatawaitia rānei mō te KOWHEORI-19 kia kaua rawa e haere ki tētahi kano ārai mate. Waea atu ki 0800 28 29 26 , haere rānei ki bookmyvaccine.nz (external link) ki te whakarite anō i tō wāhui. Rongoā: Mēnā he ohotata, waea atu ki 111 . Mēnā ehara i te ohotata, me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ngā tautoko hauora hinengaro me te oranga: He uaua pea te noho taratahi. E wātea ana he āwhina. Mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko koe, ka taea e koe te kōrero ki tētahi tumu kōrero – me waea atu, me patowaea rānei ki 1737 hei whakamahi i te ratonga ‘Need to Talk?’. He koreutu, ā, e wātea ana i te 24 haora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Me kī he tino tuku tautoko i roto i te reo Ingarihi engari tērā ētahi wā ka taea te tūhono i a koe ki tētahi kaikōrero i tua atu i te reo Ingarihi. Taha pūtea: E wātea ana he tautoko pūtea mā te hunga me noho ki te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19 i Te Manatū Whakahiato Ora i te 7 rā i te wiki, 8am ki te 5pm i 0800 559 009 me Whānau Ora i 0800 875 663 . Mēnā kei a koe tonu tō tamaiti, kua uru tonu ia ki roto i te noho rāhui a tō whare, ā, me mātua whai i aua ture anō o tō whare. Mēnā kāore tō tamaiti i tō taha, ā, ko tō rāhui he hono atu ki tētahi atu, he whānui ake rānei, ka āhei ia ki te noho ki tō taha engari me whai ngā tāngata katoa o tō rāhui i ngā ture o tō whare. Ka āhei tonu koe ki tētahi kaitiaki kia haere ake ki tō kāinga mēnā ko koe anake te tangata e tiakina ana, ā, me mau PPE ia. Kāore ia i te āhei ki te tiaki i ētahi atu tāngata nō whare kē. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Ngā tāngata i tātata | Close contacts --- Section Separator --- Mēnā kei te hiahia kai koe, ota rongoā, ngā mea waiwai rānei me tono ki tētahi hoa, he kiritata rānei kia waiho ki waho o tō kūaha. Mēnā i tae koe te wāhi pūtake i te wā kua whakatauhia, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga. Ka taea anake e koe te wehe i te kāinga mēnā kei te haere koe kia aromatawaitia mō te KOWHEORI-19, mēnā rānei ka pā mai he ohotata, kei te noho mōrearea hoki koe. Me haere koe kia aromatawaitia: I muri tonu mai i tō mōhio he tangata koe i tātata I te 5 rā i muri mai i tō haerenga ki te wāhi pūtake Ā, me whiwhi aromatawai atu anō 12 rā i muri mai i tō haerenga ki te wāhi pūtake. I te wā kei te kāinga me noho wehe mai i ētahi atu tāngata i tō whare mēnā ka taea. Ka taea e koe te korikori tinana i waho, engari i tōu whare mēnā ka taea haumarutia wehe mai i ētahi atu. Tērā pea ko ngā mahi pērā i te hikihiki maitai i tō iari, te whakamahi taura pekepeke i tō ara kuhunga rānei. Kāore e uru mai ki tēnei ko ngā mahi i waho atu o tō kāinga, iari rānei pērā i te heri i te kurī ki te hīkoi i te takiwā noho. Mēnā he kaimahi waiwai koe, tē taea e koe te wehe i tō whare ki te haere ki te mahi. Mēnā i te wāhi pūtake koe, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga mō te 14 rā i te iti rawa mai i tō pānga whakamutunga, ahakoa ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate. Me noho taratahi koe tae noa ki te waeatanga a Healthline ki a koe ki te whakaū i tō tukutanga mai i te noho taratahi i te rā 14. Mō ngā mōhiohio Pokapū Aromatawai me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , haere rānei ki healthpoint.co.nz/covid-19 (external link) Mēnā kāore ō waka me waea atu ki tō rata, ā, tērā pea ka mahi tahi tō rata me ngā ratonga hapori ki te whakarite i tētahi aromatawai, ngā whakahaere aromatawai nekeneke rānei i ngā wāhi he nui te hiahia. Kāore he utu mō ngā aromatawai. Ko te tukanga noa mō ngā aromatawai e whakaatu ana kei te mate ka waea mai te Hauora Tūmatanui. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e rātau me aha koe ā muri ake. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate ka whakamōhiotia atu koe mā te patowaea. Me noho ngā tāngata katoa o te whare ki te kāinga kia tohu rā anō te aromatawai rā 5 o te tangata i haere ki te wāhi pūtake kāore ia i te mate. Nō reira kāore koe i te āhei ki te puta ki te: hoko kai, te tiki kai rānei tiki rongoā, mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate rānei, ētahi atu pūtake rānei, (hāunga ngā whakamaimoa hauora whāwhai). Engari ka āhei koe ki te haere ki waho ki te: korikori tinana engari me haumaru te mahi, mā te noho tawhiti mai i ētahi atu. Tē taea e koe te wehe i tō whare ki te haere ki te mahi engari ia mēnā he kaimahi waiwai koe, ā, kei te ū koe ki ētahi āhuatanga ake. Me noho ngā tāngata katoa o te whare ki te kāinga mō te 5 rā i te iti rawa – kia whakaatu rā anō te aromatawai rā 5 o te tangata i haere ki te wāhi pūtake kāore ia i te mate. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ki ētahi atu me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , ka roa ake pea tō wā noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me aromatawai ētahi atu tāngata o te whare, engari ia mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a rātau, ka tonoa rānei rātau e ngā āpiha hauora. Mō ngā mōhiohio Pokapū Aromatawai me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , haere rānei ki healthpoint.co.nz/covid-19 (external link) Mēnā kāore ō waka me waea atu ki tō rata, ā, tērā pea ka mahi tahi tō rata me ngā ratonga hapori ki te whakarite i tētahi aromatawai, ngā whakahaere aromatawai nekeneke rānei i ngā wāhi he nui te hiahia. Kāore he utu mō ngā aromatawai. Ko te tukanga noa mō ngā aromatawai e whakaatu ana kei te mate ka waea mai te Hauora Tūmatanui. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e rātau me aha koe ā muri ake. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate ka whakamōhiotia atu koe mā te patowaea. Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 pea ko tētahi maremare hou, kino kē atu rānei, te kirikā, hēmanawa, mamae korokoro, heke te hūpē, kua kore rānei e rongo ā-ihu/ā-tāwara mō tētahi wā. Ka pā mai anō pea ki ētahi tāngata te mate tikotiko, ānini māhunga, mamae uaua, whakapairuaki, pōkaikaha, te kārangi rānei. Ki te pā mai ngā tohumate ki te tangata — ahakoa kua kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate — me wawe te waea atu ki Healthline kia aromatawaitia, me noho ki te kāinga, ā, me noho wehe i ētahi atu i tō kāinga mēnā ka taea. Me pēnei haere tonu tae noa ki te 24 haora i muri mai i te mutunga o ō tohumate, ā, kia whakaatu rā anō tō aromatawai kāore koe i te mate. Mēnā kei te uaua te hēhē, waea atu mō te waka tūroro: Waea ki 111 . Kia whakaatu rā anō te aromatawai rā 5 kāore te tangata i tae ki te wāhi pūtake i te mate, kaua rawa he tangata e wehe i tō whare ki te tiki kai, ētahi atu ō rānei. Ka taea e koe te tono tētahi hoa, he kiritata, he whanaunga rānei kia heria mai ō kai me ō rongoā ki tō kūaha. Engari, kāore koe e āhei ki te kōrero ki a ia, tētahi atu pānga rānei ki a ia i a ia i reira. Mēnā kāore he tohumate o ētahi atu i tō whare, ka āhei rātau ki te haere ki te hoko kai i muri i te whakaatu a te aromatawai rā 5 o te tangata i haere ki te wāhi pūtake kāore ia i te mate. Mēnā ko koe te tangata i haere ki tētahi wāhi pūtake, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga kia whakaaetia rā anō koe e te Hauora Tūmatanui kei te āhei koe ki te wehe. Ka taea e koe te tono tuihono ngā kai mā ngā toa hokomaha paetata me tā rātau Ratonga Āwhina Whakaarotau. Ka taea te whakarato ngā tōtō kai ki tō kēti, tō kūaha rānei – haere ki familyservices.govt.nz (external link) ki te kimi i tētahi pātaka kai, waea atu rānei ki 0800 890 110 ki te ota i tētahi Kete Tautoko a Whānau Ora. Me noho wehe koe mai i ētahi atu o te whare ina taea. Kaua rawa e tuari rīhi, kapu, taputapu kai, pera, taora rānei me ētahi atu i tō whare. Me horoi i ō mea ki rō wai hopihopi wera. He mea nui tonu mō te hunga he tohumate ō rātau, i tae atu ki tētahi wāhi pūtake, he tangata i tātata, i aromatawaitia rānei mō te KOWHEORI-19 kia kaua rawa e haere ki tētahi pokapū kano ārai mate, kei roto i tēnei ko ngā tāngata o tō whare kei te noho i tō kāinga. Waea atu ki 0800 28 29 26 , haere rānei ki bookmyvaccine.nz ki te whakarite anō i tō wāhui. Mēnā he kaimahi hauora waiwai koe, he kaimahi paewhenua rānei, ā, e ū ana koe ki ētahi āhuatanga ake, ka āhei pea koe ki te mahi haere tonu. Torotoro ki a Healthline ki te tirotiro. Rongoā: Mēnā he ohotata, waea atu ki 111 . Mēnā ehara i te ohotata, me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ngā tautoko hauora hinengaro me te oranga: He uaua pea te noho taratahi. E wātea ana he āwhina. Mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko koe, ka taea e koe te kōrero ki tētahi tumu kōrero – me waea atu, me patowaea rānei ki 1737 hei whakamahi i te ratonga ‘Need to Talk?’. He koreutu, ā, e wātea ana i te 24 haora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Me kī he tino tuku tautoko i roto i te reo Ingarihi engari tērā ētahi wā ka taea e te tūhono i a koe ki tētahi kaikōrero i tua atu i te reo Ingarihi. Taha pūtea: Mēnā ko te tikanga o te noho taratahi kua kore e taea e koe te mahi, e wātea ana he tautoko mā Te Manatū Whakahiato Ora i te 7 rā i te wiki, 8am ki te 5pm i 0800 559 009 me Whānau Ora i 0800 875 663 . Mēnā kei a koe tō tamaiti i tēnei wā, kua uru tonu ia ki roto i te noho rāhui a tō whare, ā, me mātua whai i aua ture 'noho ki te kāinga' anō. Mēnā e manaakitia e koe ō tamariki mō tētahi wā, ā, kua honoa, kua whānui ake rānei tō rāhui, me whai ngā tāngata katoa o tō rāhui kua whakakotahitia i aua ture anō o tōu whare – arā, ko te tikanga o tērā ka noho ngā tāngata katoa i roto i ngā whare e rua. Ka āhei tonu koe ki tētahi kaitiaki kia haere ake ki tō kāinga mēnā ko koe anake te tangata e tiakina ana, ā, me mau PPE ia. Kāore ia i te āhei ki te tiaki i ētahi atu tāngata nō whare kē. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā kei te hiahia kai koe, ota rongoā, ngā mea waiwai rānei me tono ki tētahi hoa, he kiritata rānei kia waiho ki waho o tō kūaha. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā i tae koe te wāhi pūtake i te wā kua whakatauhia, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga. Ka taea anake e koe te wehe i te kāinga mēnā kei te haere koe kia aromatawaitia mō te KOWHEORI-19, mēnā rānei ka pā mai he ohotata, kei te noho mōrearea hoki koe. Me haere koe kia aromatawaitia: I muri tonu mai i tō mōhio he tangata koe i tātata I te 5 rā i muri mai i tō haerenga ki te wāhi pūtake Ā, me whiwhi aromatawai atu anō 12 rā i muri mai i tō haerenga ki te wāhi pūtake. I te wā kei te kāinga me noho wehe mai i ētahi atu tāngata i tō whare mēnā ka taea. Ka taea e koe te korikori tinana i waho, engari i tōu whare mēnā ka taea haumarutia wehe mai i ētahi atu. Tērā pea ko ngā mahi pērā i te hikihiki maitai i tō iari, te whakamahi taura pekepeke i tō ara kuhunga rānei. Kāore e uru mai ki tēnei ko ngā mahi i waho atu o tō kāinga, iari rānei pērā i te heri i te kurī ki te hīkoi i te takiwā noho. Mēnā he kaimahi waiwai koe, tē taea e koe te wehe i tō whare ki te haere ki te mahi. Mēnā i te wāhi pūtake koe, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga mō te 14 rā i te iti rawa mai i tō pānga whakamutunga, ahakoa ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate. Me noho taratahi koe tae noa ki te waeatanga a Healthline ki a koe ki te whakaū i tō tukutanga mai i te noho taratahi i te rā 14. Mō ngā mōhiohio Pokapū Aromatawai me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , haere rānei ki healthpoint.co.nz/covid-19 (external link) Mēnā kāore ō waka me waea atu ki tō rata, ā, tērā pea ka mahi tahi tō rata me ngā ratonga hapori ki te whakarite i tētahi aromatawai, ngā whakahaere aromatawai nekeneke rānei i ngā wāhi he nui te hiahia. Kāore he utu mō ngā aromatawai. Ko te tukanga noa mō ngā aromatawai e whakaatu ana kei te mate ka waea mai te Hauora Tūmatanui. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e rātau me aha koe ā muri ake. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate ka whakamōhiotia atu koe mā te patowaea. Me noho ngā tāngata katoa o te whare ki te kāinga kia tohu rā anō te aromatawai rā 5 o te tangata i haere ki te wāhi pūtake kāore ia i te mate. Nō reira kāore koe i te āhei ki te puta ki te: hoko kai, te tiki kai rānei tiki rongoā, mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate rānei, ētahi atu pūtake rānei, (hāunga ngā whakamaimoa hauora whāwhai). Engari ka āhei koe ki te haere ki waho ki te: korikori tinana engari me haumaru te mahi, mā te noho tawhiti mai i ētahi atu. Tē taea e koe te wehe i tō whare ki te haere ki te mahi engari ia mēnā he kaimahi waiwai koe, ā, kei te ū koe ki ētahi āhuatanga ake. Me noho ngā tāngata katoa o te whare ki te kāinga mō te 5 rā i te iti rawa – kia whakaatu rā anō te aromatawai rā 5 o te tangata i haere ki te wāhi pūtake kāore ia i te mate. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ki ētahi atu me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , ka roa ake pea tō wā noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me aromatawai ētahi atu tāngata o te whare, engari ia mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate ki a rātau, ka tonoa rānei rātau e ngā āpiha hauora. Mō ngā mōhiohio Pokapū Aromatawai me waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , haere rānei ki healthpoint.co.nz/covid-19 (external link) Mēnā kāore ō waka me waea atu ki tō rata, ā, tērā pea ka mahi tahi tō rata me ngā ratonga hapori ki te whakarite i tētahi aromatawai, ngā whakahaere aromatawai nekeneke rānei i ngā wāhi he nui te hiahia. Kāore he utu mō ngā aromatawai. Ko te tukanga noa mō ngā aromatawai e whakaatu ana kei te mate ka waea mai te Hauora Tūmatanui. Ka whakamōhiotia atu koe e rātau me aha koe ā muri ake. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate ka whakamōhiotia atu koe mā te patowaea. Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 pea ko tētahi maremare hou, kino kē atu rānei, te kirikā, hēmanawa, mamae korokoro, heke te hūpē, kua kore rānei e rongo ā-ihu/ā-tāwara mō tētahi wā. Ka pā mai anō pea ki ētahi tāngata te mate tikotiko, ānini māhunga, mamae uaua, whakapairuaki, pōkaikaha, te kārangi rānei. Ki te pā mai ngā tohumate ki te tangata — ahakoa kua kitea e te aromatawai kāore koe i te mate — me wawe te waea atu ki Healthline kia aromatawaitia, me noho ki te kāinga, ā, me noho wehe i ētahi atu i tō kāinga mēnā ka taea. Me pēnei haere tonu tae noa ki te 24 haora i muri mai i te mutunga o ō tohumate, ā, kia whakaatu rā anō tō aromatawai kāore koe i te mate. Mēnā kei te uaua te hēhē, waea atu mō te waka tūroro: Waea ki 111 . Kia whakaatu rā anō te aromatawai rā 5 kāore te tangata i tae ki te wāhi pūtake i te mate, kaua rawa he tangata e wehe i tō whare ki te tiki kai, ētahi atu ō rānei. Ka taea e koe te tono tētahi hoa, he kiritata, he whanaunga rānei kia heria mai ō kai me ō rongoā ki tō kūaha. Engari, kāore koe e āhei ki te kōrero ki a ia, tētahi atu pānga rānei ki a ia i a ia i reira. Mēnā kāore he tohumate o ētahi atu i tō whare, ka āhei rātau ki te haere ki te hoko kai i muri i te whakaatu a te aromatawai rā 5 o te tangata i haere ki te wāhi pūtake kāore ia i te mate. Mēnā ko koe te tangata i haere ki tētahi wāhi pūtake, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga kia whakaaetia rā anō koe e te Hauora Tūmatanui kei te āhei koe ki te wehe. Ka taea e koe te tono tuihono ngā kai mā ngā toa hokomaha paetata me tā rātau Ratonga Āwhina Whakaarotau. Ka taea te whakarato ngā tōtō kai ki tō kēti, tō kūaha rānei – haere ki familyservices.govt.nz (external link) ki te kimi i tētahi pātaka kai, waea atu rānei ki 0800 890 110 ki te ota i tētahi Kete Tautoko a Whānau Ora. Me noho wehe koe mai i ētahi atu o te whare ina taea. Kaua rawa e tuari rīhi, kapu, taputapu kai, pera, taora rānei me ētahi atu i tō whare. Me horoi i ō mea ki rō wai hopihopi wera. He mea nui tonu mō te hunga he tohumate ō rātau, i tae atu ki tētahi wāhi pūtake, he tangata i tātata, i aromatawaitia rānei mō te KOWHEORI-19 kia kaua rawa e haere ki tētahi pokapū kano ārai mate, kei roto i tēnei ko ngā tāngata o tō whare kei te noho i tō kāinga. Waea atu ki 0800 28 29 26 , haere rānei ki bookmyvaccine.nz ki te whakarite anō i tō wāhui. Mēnā he kaimahi hauora waiwai koe, he kaimahi paewhenua rānei, ā, e ū ana koe ki ētahi āhuatanga ake, ka āhei pea koe ki te mahi haere tonu. Torotoro ki a Healthline ki te tirotiro. Rongoā: Mēnā he ohotata, waea atu ki 111 . Mēnā ehara i te ohotata, me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Ngā tautoko hauora hinengaro me te oranga: He uaua pea te noho taratahi. E wātea ana he āwhina. Mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko koe, ka taea e koe te kōrero ki tētahi tumu kōrero – me waea atu, me patowaea rānei ki 1737 hei whakamahi i te ratonga ‘Need to Talk?’. He koreutu, ā, e wātea ana i te 24 haora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Me kī he tino tuku tautoko i roto i te reo Ingarihi engari tērā ētahi wā ka taea e te tūhono i a koe ki tētahi kaikōrero i tua atu i te reo Ingarihi. Taha pūtea: Mēnā ko te tikanga o te noho taratahi kua kore e taea e koe te mahi, e wātea ana he tautoko mā Te Manatū Whakahiato Ora i te 7 rā i te wiki, 8am ki te 5pm i 0800 559 009 me Whānau Ora i 0800 875 663 . Mēnā kei a koe tō tamaiti i tēnei wā, kua uru tonu ia ki roto i te noho rāhui a tō whare, ā, me mātua whai i aua ture 'noho ki te kāinga' anō. Mēnā e manaakitia e koe ō tamariki mō tētahi wā, ā, kua honoa, kua whānui ake rānei tō rāhui, me whai ngā tāngata katoa o tō rāhui kua whakakotahitia i aua ture anō o tōu whare – arā, ko te tikanga o tērā ka noho ngā tāngata katoa i roto i ngā whare e rua. Ka āhei tonu koe ki tētahi kaitiaki kia haere ake ki tō kāinga mēnā ko koe anake te tangata e tiakina ana, ā, me mau PPE ia. Kāore ia i te āhei ki te tiaki i ētahi atu tāngata nō whare kē. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Ngā wāhi whaipānga | Locations of interest --- Section Separator --- Ina puta he take hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19 i te hapori, ka whakahoutia e Te Manatū Hauora tana pae tukutuku ki ngā wāhi i kitea ētahi kēhi tūturu o te KOWHEORI-19, ā ka kīia ēnei he ʻWāhi Whaipānga’. He mea nui tonu kia hihiratia mēnā i tae koe ki tētahi wāhi whaipānga i te wā i whakatauhia. Mēnā i tae koe, ka tuhia ngā mōhiohio i te taha o ia wāhi whaipānga o ngā mahi hei whai māhau. Ko ngā mahi me mahi koe kei te āhua o te mōrearea whakaraerae i ia wāhi. Mēnā kāore koe i tae ki tētahi o aua wāhi, ka tae kē atu ki tētahi o aua wāhi engari kīhai i reira i te wā i whakatauhia, me aroturuki koe i tō hauora, ā, me haere kia whakamātauria anake mēnā e whakaatu ana koe i ētahi tohumate. Ngā wāhi whaipānga (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ina puta he take hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19 i te hapori, ka whakahoutia e Te Manatū Hauora tana pae tukutuku ki ngā wāhi i kitea ētahi kēhi tūturu o te KOWHEORI-19, ā ka kīia ēnei he ʻWāhi Whaipānga’. He mea nui tonu kia hihiratia mēnā i tae koe ki tētahi wāhi whaipānga i te wā i whakatauhia. Mēnā i tae koe, ka tuhia ngā mōhiohio i te taha o ia wāhi whaipānga o ngā mahi hei whai māhau. Ko ngā mahi me mahi koe kei te āhua o te mōrearea whakaraerae i ia wāhi. Mēnā kāore koe i tae ki tētahi o aua wāhi, ka tae kē atu ki tētahi o aua wāhi engari kīhai i reira i te wā i whakatauhia, me aroturuki koe i tō hauora, ā, me haere kia whakamātauria anake mēnā e whakaatu ana koe i ētahi tohumate. Ngā wāhi whaipānga (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā pārongo mō te Mate Korona | Information about COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms --- Section Separator --- He mate korona hou te KOWHEORI-19 ka pā pea ki ō pūkahukahu me ō arahau. He maha ngā momo mate korona e puta ai ngā māuiuitanga pēnei i te maremare noa iho nei. maremare e hou ana, e kino kē ake ana rānei kirikā kāore e iti iho ana i te tohurau e 38 ( 38°C ) huatare o te manawa mātihetihe me te ihu hūpē korenga o te ihu e rongo ana i te kakara. Ina pāngia koe e ēnei tohumate, ehara pea i te mea kua āta pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Tērā pea kua pāngia kētia koe e tētahi mate e hōrapa ake ana, pēnei i te maremare, i te rewharewha rānei. Ko te huatare o te manawa tētahi tohu pea o te pūkahu kakā, ā, me mātua tirotiro e te tākuta. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Tērā pea kua pāngia ētahi tāngata e ngā tohumate kāore e pērā rawa ana te hōrapa, pēnei i ēnei noa iho nei, i te: kirikā tikotiko māhunga ānini uaua mamae whakapai ruaki me te ruaki rangirua me te hōhā. Kāore anō mātou kia mōhio ki te roa o te wā ka hipa i mua i te kitenga o ngā tohumate mai i te pānga o te tangata. E ai ki te Kāhui Hauora o te Ao, kei te 2 – 10 rā tōna roa. Ka rere te KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kōpata i tētahi tangata ki tētahi atu. Ka pāngia e te tangata mā ō rātou karu, mā ō rātou ihu, mā ō rātou waha hoki. Ka maremare ana rānei, ka matihe ana rānei, ka kōrero ana rānei tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, ka rere atu pea i a ia ngā kōpata kei roto rā te huaketo. He rahi rawa ēnei kōpata kia roa tonu te rere i te takiwā, nō reira ka tau ki runga i ngā mata huri noa. --- Section Separator --- He mate korona hou te KOWHEORI-19 ka pā pea ki ō pūkahukahu me ō arahau. He maha ngā momo mate korona e puta ai ngā māuiuitanga pēnei i te maremare noa iho nei. maremare e hou ana, e kino kē ake ana rānei kirikā kāore e iti iho ana i te tohurau e 38 ( 38°C ) huatare o te manawa mātihetihe me te ihu hūpē korenga o te ihu e rongo ana i te kakara. Ina pāngia koe e ēnei tohumate, ehara pea i te mea kua āta pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Tērā pea kua pāngia kētia koe e tētahi mate e hōrapa ake ana, pēnei i te maremare, i te rewharewha rānei. Ko te huatare o te manawa tētahi tohu pea o te pūkahu kakā, ā, me mātua tirotiro e te tākuta. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Tērā pea kua pāngia ētahi tāngata e ngā tohumate kāore e pērā rawa ana te hōrapa, pēnei i ēnei noa iho nei, i te: kirikā tikotiko māhunga ānini uaua mamae whakapai ruaki me te ruaki rangirua me te hōhā. Kāore anō mātou kia mōhio ki te roa o te wā ka hipa i mua i te kitenga o ngā tohumate mai i te pānga o te tangata. E ai ki te Kāhui Hauora o te Ao, kei te 2 – 10 rā tōna roa. Ka rere te KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kōpata i tētahi tangata ki tētahi atu. Ka pāngia e te tangata mā ō rātou karu, mā ō rātou ihu, mā ō rātou waha hoki. Ka maremare ana rānei, ka matihe ana rānei, ka kōrero ana rānei tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, ka rere atu pea i a ia ngā kōpata kei roto rā te huaketo. He rahi rawa ēnei kōpata kia roa tonu te rere i te takiwā, nō reira ka tau ki runga i ngā mata huri noa. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā pārongo mō te Mate Korona | Information about COVID-19 He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters --- Section Separator --- He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: ahu mai i tētahi e huna nei tōna ingoa ake kī mai he pārongo kei a ia nō roto i ngā pokapū kāwanatanga, engari kāore e tautuhia te puna kī mai e whāngai pārongo ana ia kua hunaia i te marea, kāore rānei ngā āpiha e pīrangi nei kia mōhiotia e koe kī mai i te nuinga o te wā, ko te ‘kōrero houtupu’ e kino ake ana i te pārongo e whaimana ana. I tētahi wā pēnei: kia mataara koe ki ngā pārongo ka arohia e koe tirohia te kounga o te pārongo i mua i tō tuku ki ētahi atu. Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) --- Section Separator --- He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: ahu mai i tētahi e huna nei tōna ingoa ake kī mai he pārongo kei a ia nō roto i ngā pokapū kāwanatanga, engari kāore e tautuhia te puna kī mai e whāngai pārongo ana ia kua hunaia i te marea, kāore rānei ngā āpiha e pīrangi nei kia mōhiotia e koe kī mai i te nuinga o te wā, ko te ‘kōrero houtupu’ e kino ake ana i te pārongo e whaimana ana. I tētahi wā pēnei: kia mataara koe ki ngā pārongo ka arohia e koe tirohia te kounga o te pārongo i mua i tō tuku ki ētahi atu. Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā pārongo mō te Mate Korona | Information about COVID-19 Te momo Delta | The Delta variant --- Section Separator --- He tikanga noa te huringa, te irakētanga rānei o ngā wheori. Kua rerekē te āhua o te wheori KOWHEORI-19 i te hekenga o te wā, i a ia e urutau ana ki te tangata. Nā tēnei i hua mai ai ngā momo hou o te wheori, tae atu ki te momo Delta. Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. Kua tere te hora puta noa i te ao o te momo Delta, ā, koinei tonu te momo matua i ngā whenua maha. Koinei te taurangi mama rawa ki te whakawhiti, otirā he māmā ake tana horanga ki tērā o te momo tuatahi o te wheori KOWHEORI-19, me ētahi atu momo taurangi. He rerekē te Delta i te mea mō ngā tāngata e pāngia ana: ka kino ake te whanaketanga o ngā māuiuitanga KOWHEORI-19 i ētahi atu momo o te wheori he nui ake te mōrearea ka whakaurua atu ki rō hōhipera te āhua nei he nui ake te kawenga o te wheori (he kawenga wheori nui ake) ā, he roa ake te wā e kawea ana, tērā i ētahi atu momo kāore pea ōna tohumate (he tohumate-kore) ina maunoa taua mate he nui ake te tūpono whakapoke i ētahi atu - ko te whakatau tata, ko te toharite, kotahi te tangata e pokea ana e te Delta, tērā pea ka tuku ki te 5, 6 tāngata atu anō rānei ka poto ake pea te wā mai i te whakaraerae ki te wheori me te kitenga o ngā tohumate tuatahi. Mā te kitenga wawe i ngā kēhi, te whai i ngā tapuwae, me te whakataratahi i ngā kēhi me ā rātou pānga, he waiwai ki te whakamutu i te horanga o ngā momo katoa o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e tātou te takahi wawe atu i ngā pakarutanga ki ngā hapori mā te: Whai i ngā ture Pae Mataara . Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā e herea ana e ngā ture Pae Mataara. Te noho tawhiti ā-tinana i te 2m mēnā ka taea. Te noho ki te kāinga mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu me te waea atu ki Healthline i runga i te 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu mō te rapu whakamātautau . Te whai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te matawai i ngā waehere QR, mā te tuhi rānei i ngā tuhipoka āmiki. Mā te whakakā te whaiwhai hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer. Mā te whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate e rua, ka whai ārainga nui koe i te pokenga Delta, ā, he ārainga nui ake hoki i te mate taumaha, te noho hōhipera me te mate tonu atu. I tēnei wā e whakaatu ana ngā taunakitanga, he 88% te whaihuatanga o ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te mate i te pokenga Delta. Ko te āraitanga i te urunga ki te hōhipera nā te pokenga Delta, he āhua 96%. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 ) ki te whakarite tāpui. He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Kāore tētahi kano āraimate e eke ki te 100% te whaihuatanga, nō reira he tūponotanga anō kei pāngia tētahi tangata whai kano ārai mate ki te momo Delta, me te tuku i te wheori ki ētahi atu. Nō reira me whakamahi i ngā āhuatanga katoa e wātea ana, tae atu ki te kano ārai mate, ki te tiaki i a tātou me ō tātou hapori i te mate. --- Section Separator --- He tikanga noa te huringa, te irakētanga rānei o ngā wheori. Kua rerekē te āhua o te wheori KOWHEORI-19 i te hekenga o te wā, i a ia e urutau ana ki te tangata. Nā tēnei i hua mai ai ngā momo hou o te wheori, tae atu ki te momo Delta. Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. Kua tere te hora puta noa i te ao o te momo Delta, ā, koinei tonu te momo matua i ngā whenua maha. Koinei te taurangi mama rawa ki te whakawhiti, otirā he māmā ake tana horanga ki tērā o te momo tuatahi o te wheori KOWHEORI-19, me ētahi atu momo taurangi. He rerekē te Delta i te mea mō ngā tāngata e pāngia ana: ka kino ake te whanaketanga o ngā māuiuitanga KOWHEORI-19 i ētahi atu momo o te wheori he nui ake te mōrearea ka whakaurua atu ki rō hōhipera te āhua nei he nui ake te kawenga o te wheori (he kawenga wheori nui ake) ā, he roa ake te wā e kawea ana, tērā i ētahi atu momo kāore pea ōna tohumate (he tohumate-kore) ina maunoa taua mate he nui ake te tūpono whakapoke i ētahi atu - ko te whakatau tata, ko te toharite, kotahi te tangata e pokea ana e te Delta, tērā pea ka tuku ki te 5, 6 tāngata atu anō rānei ka poto ake pea te wā mai i te whakaraerae ki te wheori me te kitenga o ngā tohumate tuatahi. Mā te kitenga wawe i ngā kēhi, te whai i ngā tapuwae, me te whakataratahi i ngā kēhi me ā rātou pānga, he waiwai ki te whakamutu i te horanga o ngā momo katoa o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e tātou te takahi wawe atu i ngā pakarutanga ki ngā hapori mā te: Whai i ngā ture Pae Mataara . Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā e herea ana e ngā ture Pae Mataara. Te noho tawhiti ā-tinana i te 2m mēnā ka taea. Te noho ki te kāinga mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu me te waea atu ki Healthline i runga i te 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu mō te rapu whakamātautau . Te whai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te matawai i ngā waehere QR, mā te tuhi rānei i ngā tuhipoka āmiki. Mā te whakakā te whaiwhai hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer. Mā te whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate e rua, ka whai ārainga nui koe i te pokenga Delta, ā, he ārainga nui ake hoki i te mate taumaha, te noho hōhipera me te mate tonu atu. I tēnei wā e whakaatu ana ngā taunakitanga, he 88% te whaihuatanga o ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te mate i te pokenga Delta. Ko te āraitanga i te urunga ki te hōhipera nā te pokenga Delta, he āhua 96%. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 ) ki te whakarite tāpui. He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Kāore tētahi kano āraimate e eke ki te 100% te whaihuatanga, nō reira he tūponotanga anō kei pāngia tētahi tangata whai kano ārai mate ki te momo Delta, me te tuku i te wheori ki ētahi atu. Nō reira me whakamahi i ngā āhuatanga katoa e wātea ana, tae atu ki te kano ārai mate, ki te tiaki i a tātou me ō tātou hapori i te mate. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā ataata | Videos --- Section Separator --- አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haere ki, i Aotearoa | Travel to and from New Zealand Ngā pārongo mō te Mate Korona | Information about COVID-19 Te tiaki i tō hapori | Protecting your community Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Ngā Pāe Mataara | The Alert Levels Ngā āwhinatanga | Available support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā ataata | Videos Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haere ki, i Aotearoa | Travel to and from New Zealand Ngā pārongo mō te Mate Korona | Information about COVID-19 Te tiaki i tō hapori | Protecting your community Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Ngā Pāe Mataara | The Alert Levels Ngā āwhinatanga | Available support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā ataata | Videos ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources --- Section Separator --- Taku puka-iti mō NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Whāia ōu tapuwae [PDF, 125 KB] Track your journey Kia haumaru te haere [PDF, 120 KB] Travel safely Ngā ratonga me ngā tautoko [PDF, 151 KB] Services and support Te toro atu ki ngā kai, ki ngā mea waiwai rānei [PDF, 75 KB] Access to food or essential items Te tāpui i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 306 KB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination Kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19: Rapua ngā meka [PDF, 270 KB] COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts Tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 — Ngā mea katoa me mōhio koe [PDF, 733 KB] Your COVID-19 vaccination: everything you need to know Te whiwhi i tō rongoā ārai mate [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect I muri i tō wero ārai mate [PDF, 77 KB] After your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Taku puka-iti mō NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Whāia ōu tapuwae [PDF, 125 KB] Track your journey Kia haumaru te haere [PDF, 120 KB] Travel safely Ngā ratonga me ngā tautoko [PDF, 151 KB] Services and support Te toro atu ki ngā kai, ki ngā mea waiwai rānei [PDF, 75 KB] Access to food or essential items --- Section Separator --- Te tāpui i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 306 KB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination Kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19: Rapua ngā meka [PDF, 270 KB] COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts Tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 — Ngā mea katoa me mōhio koe [PDF, 733 KB] Your COVID-19 vaccination: everything you need to know Te whiwhi i tō rongoā ārai mate [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect I muri i tō wero ārai mate [PDF, 77 KB] After your vaccination --- Section Separator --- አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haere ki, i Aotearoa | Travel to and from New Zealand Ngā pārongo mō te Mate Korona | Information about COVID-19 Te tiaki i tō hapori | Protecting your community Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Ngā Pāe Mataara | The Alert Levels Ngā āwhinatanga | Available support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā ataata | Videos Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haere ki, i Aotearoa | Travel to and from New Zealand Ngā pārongo mō te Mate Korona | Information about COVID-19 Te tiaki i tō hapori | Protecting your community Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Ngā Pāe Mataara | The Alert Levels Ngā āwhinatanga | Available support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā ataata | Videos ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o ngā pata i te wā e kōrero ana, e kata ana, e maremare ana, e matihe ana hoki te tangata. Ka hāngai hoki ki tēnei ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 engari e ora ana te āhua, otirā kāore he tohumate mārama. --- Section Separator --- Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o ngā pata i te wā e kōrero ana, e kata ana, e maremare ana, e matihe ana hoki te tangata. Ka hāngai hoki ki tēnei ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 engari e ora ana te āhua, otirā kāore he tohumate mārama.
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te tiaki i tō hapori | Protecting your community Ngā ārai kanohi me ngā maruhā | Face coverings and masks --- Section Separator --- E akiaki ana mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi mēnā kāore e taea te tū tawhiti atu i tētahi atu, hei tauira, i ngā wāhi kōpā i rō whare. Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi: i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i runga i ngā rerenga Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi mēnā ko koe te kaihautū o tētahi: tēkehi, waka kawe-tiri waka kawe tūmatanui. Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi: kei runga koe i ngā waka kawe tūmatanui, ngā rererangi (tae atu ki ngā wāhi wehe, taunga rānei pēnei i ngā teihana tereina me ngā tūnga pahi) i roto hoki i ngā tēkehi, waka kawe-tiri rānei. e toro atu ana koe ki tētahi whare hauora, tiaki kaumātua rānei i roto hoki i ngā pakihi hokohoko, pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā kēmehi, ngā mōro, ngā mākete rō whare, ngā toa ō rangaranga, me ngā wāhi tūmatanui pēnei i ngā whare pupuri taonga me ngā whare pukapuka te haere ki ngā wāhi tūmatanui i roto i ngā kōti me ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, me ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga whai taupaepae kiritaki. Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi mēnā: e mahi ana koe i tētahi wāhi anga tūmatanui o tētahi kōti, taraipiunara, tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga rānei, kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori rānei he kaihautū kawe taputapu ki ngā wāhitau kāinga - me mau noa ngā kaihautū kawe taputapu i te ārai kanohi i te wā kei waho ia i tōna waka e mahi ana koe i tētahi kawhe, wharekai, whare waipiro, whare kanikani, whare whāngai rawakore, tētahi atu pakihi inu me te kai rānei i te tūranga anga ki ngā kiritaki e mahi ana koe mā tētahi ratonga pānga tata - hei tauira, ngā kaikuti makawe, kaihaumanu rerehua rānei e mahi ana i tētahi toa hokohoko - tae atu ki ērā i te tuwhera i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4 e mahi ana i tētahi whare tūmatanui - hei tauira, whare pukapuka, whare taonga, whare kori - kāore e mate ngā kaimahi puna kaukau ki te mau ārai kanohi. he kaihautū tēkehi, waka kawe-tiri, poti kawe, pahi, tereina rānei mō ngā kawenga tūmatanui - kāore ngā pahi kura, poti kawe rānei i waenga i Te Ika-a-Māui me Te Waipounamu e uru ki tēnei. E akiaki ana mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi, me te noho kia 2m te tawhiti i ētahi atu i tō wehenga i te kāinga. Inarā mēnā he uaua ki te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Hei tauira, i te kohinga o ngā ō rangaranga. Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi: i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, i te wāhi wehenga, taenga rānei, hei tauira, ngā taunga rererangi, ngā teihana tereina me ngā tūnga pahi i runga rerenga i ngā tēkehi me ngā waka kawe-tiri i te toronga ki ngā whare hauora i te toronga ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua mēnā he kiritaki koe i tētahi pakihi, ratonga rānei e mahi ana i ēnei pae mataara, hei tauira, ngā hokomaha, kēmehi me ngā karāti mēnā e toro ana ki ngā wāhi tūmatanui i roto i ngā kōti me ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, me ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga whai taupaepae kiritaki. Me mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi mēnā he kaimahi koe e whai pānga ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi, ratonga rānei e mahi ana i te Pae Mataara 3. Me mau ārai kanohi koe mēnā e mahi ana koe i: tētahi hokomaha, toa, karāti, kaihoko waipiro, kēmehi, pātaka koha kai, whare horoi kaka whaiaro, toa hoko taputapu mārō, toa hoko mīti, toa hoko ika, toa hoko huawhenua me te huarākau, mōro, pēke, New Zealand Post rānei tētahi wāhi anga tūmatanui o tētahi kōti, taraipiunara, tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga rānei, kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori rānei he kaihautū kawe taputapu ki ngā wāhitau kāinga - me mau noa ngā kaihautū kawe taputapu i te ārai kanohi i te wā kei waho ia i tōna waka he kaihautū tēkehi, waka kawe-tiri, poti kawe, pahi, tereina rānei mō ngā kawenga tūmatanui - kāore koe e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi i ngā pahi kura, poti kawe rānei i waenga i Te Ika-a-Māui me Te Waipounamu e uru ki tēnei. E akiaki ana mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi, me te noho kia 2m te tawhiti i ētahi atu i tō wehenga i te kāinga. Inarā mēnā he uaua ki te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Hei tauira, i te kohinga o ngā ō rangaranga. Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi: i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, i te wāhi wehenga, taenga rānei, hei tauira, ngā taunga rererangi, ngā teihana tereina me ngā tūnga pahi i runga rerenga i ngā tēkehi me ngā waka kawe-tiri i te toronga ki ngā whare hauora i te toronga ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua mēnā he kiritaki koe i tētahi pakihi, ratonga rānei e mahi ana i ēnei pae mataara, hei tauira, ngā hokomaha, kēmehi me ngā karāti mēnā e toro ana ki ngā wāhi tūmatanui i roto i ngā kōti me ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, me ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga whai taupaepae kiritaki. Me mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi mēnā he kaimahi koe e whai pānga ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi, ratonga rānei e mahi ana i te Pae Mataara 4. Me mau ārai kanohi koe mēnā e mahi ana koe i: tētahi hokomaha, toa, karāti, kaihoko waipiro, kēmehi, pātaka koha kai, whare horoi kaka whaiaro, toa hoko tautara rānei tētahi wāhi anga tūmatanui o tētahi kōti, taraipiunara, tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga rānei, kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori rānei he kaihautū tēkehi, waka kawe-tiri, poti kawe, pahi, tereina rānei mō ngā kawenga tūmatanui - kāore koe e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi i ngā poti kawe i waenga i Te Ika-a-Māui me Te Waipounamu e uru ki tēnei. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Kia mahara koe ki tēnei āhuatanga. E whai āheinga tonu ana rātou ki ngā ratonga kai, kēmehi me ētahi atu ratonga. Mēnā e taea ana, ka akiakitia koe ki te mau i tētahi ārai kanohi. Ko te mau ārai kanohi kāore e hiahiatia: e ngā tamariki i raro i te 12 tau e ngā ākonga i runga pahi kura i ngā ratonga waka kawe pāhihi i waenga i Te Ika-a-Māui me Te Waipounamu i runga poti, kaipuke rānei kāore he wāhi tāparepare mā ngā pāhihi, hei tauira, ngā haerenga waka torohaki i runga haerenga rēti waka, ā-rōpū rānei i runga rerenga tūmataiti e ngā kaihautū waka, rererangi, kaimahi rānei o te ratonga mēnā kei tētahi wāhi tūwehe atu i ngā pāhihi, hei tauira ngā kaihautū rererangi, ngā kaihautū tereina rānei. Kāore hoki koe e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi mēnā: kāore i te haumaru, hei tauira, mēnā kāore e taea e te kaihautū te hautū haumaru i tētahi waka he ohotata he māuiuitanga hauora hinengaro, tinana rānei, he mate, he hauātanga rānei tōu kāore e tika ana kia mau i te ārai kanohi me whakapūmau koe i tō tuakiri me whakawhiti kōrero koe ki tētahi tangata turi, uaua rānei te rongo me kai rongoā koe me kai, me inu rānei koe mēnā e whakaaetia ana te inu me te kai kāore e herea ana e te ture E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Ki te kore e taea e koe te mau i tētahi, ka taea e koe te tiki kāri awere. Ka taea e koe te whakaatu i tō kāri awere i ngā wā e hiahia ana. Ka taea e koe te tono kāri i te Disabled Persons Assembly NZ mā te whakapā atu ki a rātou i 04 801 9100 i info@dpa.org.nz rānei. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- E akiaki ana mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi mēnā kāore e taea te tū tawhiti atu i tētahi atu, hei tauira, i ngā wāhi kōpā i rō whare. Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi: i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i runga i ngā rerenga Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi mēnā ko koe te kaihautū o tētahi: tēkehi, waka kawe-tiri waka kawe tūmatanui. Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi: kei runga koe i ngā waka kawe tūmatanui, ngā rererangi (tae atu ki ngā wāhi wehe, taunga rānei pēnei i ngā teihana tereina me ngā tūnga pahi) i roto hoki i ngā tēkehi, waka kawe-tiri rānei. e toro atu ana koe ki tētahi whare hauora, tiaki kaumātua rānei i roto hoki i ngā pakihi hokohoko, pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā kēmehi, ngā mōro, ngā mākete rō whare, ngā toa ō rangaranga, me ngā wāhi tūmatanui pēnei i ngā whare pupuri taonga me ngā whare pukapuka te haere ki ngā wāhi tūmatanui i roto i ngā kōti me ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, me ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga whai taupaepae kiritaki. Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi mēnā: e mahi ana koe i tētahi wāhi anga tūmatanui o tētahi kōti, taraipiunara, tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga rānei, kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori rānei he kaihautū kawe taputapu ki ngā wāhitau kāinga - me mau noa ngā kaihautū kawe taputapu i te ārai kanohi i te wā kei waho ia i tōna waka e mahi ana koe i tētahi kawhe, wharekai, whare waipiro, whare kanikani, whare whāngai rawakore, tētahi atu pakihi inu me te kai rānei i te tūranga anga ki ngā kiritaki e mahi ana koe mā tētahi ratonga pānga tata - hei tauira, ngā kaikuti makawe, kaihaumanu rerehua rānei e mahi ana i tētahi toa hokohoko - tae atu ki ērā i te tuwhera i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4 e mahi ana i tētahi whare tūmatanui - hei tauira, whare pukapuka, whare taonga, whare kori - kāore e mate ngā kaimahi puna kaukau ki te mau ārai kanohi. he kaihautū tēkehi, waka kawe-tiri, poti kawe, pahi, tereina rānei mō ngā kawenga tūmatanui - kāore ngā pahi kura, poti kawe rānei i waenga i Te Ika-a-Māui me Te Waipounamu e uru ki tēnei. E akiaki ana mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi, me te noho kia 2m te tawhiti i ētahi atu i tō wehenga i te kāinga. Inarā mēnā he uaua ki te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Hei tauira, i te kohinga o ngā ō rangaranga. Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi: i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, i te wāhi wehenga, taenga rānei, hei tauira, ngā taunga rererangi, ngā teihana tereina me ngā tūnga pahi i runga rerenga i ngā tēkehi me ngā waka kawe-tiri i te toronga ki ngā whare hauora i te toronga ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua mēnā he kiritaki koe i tētahi pakihi, ratonga rānei e mahi ana i ēnei pae mataara, hei tauira, ngā hokomaha, kēmehi me ngā karāti mēnā e toro ana ki ngā wāhi tūmatanui i roto i ngā kōti me ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, me ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga whai taupaepae kiritaki. Me mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi mēnā he kaimahi koe e whai pānga ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi, ratonga rānei e mahi ana i te Pae Mataara 3. Me mau ārai kanohi koe mēnā e mahi ana koe i: tētahi hokomaha, toa, karāti, kaihoko waipiro, kēmehi, pātaka koha kai, whare horoi kaka whaiaro, toa hoko taputapu mārō, toa hoko mīti, toa hoko ika, toa hoko huawhenua me te huarākau, mōro, pēke, New Zealand Post rānei tētahi wāhi anga tūmatanui o tētahi kōti, taraipiunara, tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga rānei, kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori rānei he kaihautū kawe taputapu ki ngā wāhitau kāinga - me mau noa ngā kaihautū kawe taputapu i te ārai kanohi i te wā kei waho ia i tōna waka he kaihautū tēkehi, waka kawe-tiri, poti kawe, pahi, tereina rānei mō ngā kawenga tūmatanui - kāore koe e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi i ngā pahi kura, poti kawe rānei i waenga i Te Ika-a-Māui me Te Waipounamu e uru ki tēnei. E akiaki ana mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi, me te noho kia 2m te tawhiti i ētahi atu i tō wehenga i te kāinga. Inarā mēnā he uaua ki te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Hei tauira, i te kohinga o ngā ō rangaranga. Me mātua mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi: i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, i te wāhi wehenga, taenga rānei, hei tauira, ngā taunga rererangi, ngā teihana tereina me ngā tūnga pahi i runga rerenga i ngā tēkehi me ngā waka kawe-tiri i te toronga ki ngā whare hauora i te toronga ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua mēnā he kiritaki koe i tētahi pakihi, ratonga rānei e mahi ana i ēnei pae mataara, hei tauira, ngā hokomaha, kēmehi me ngā karāti mēnā e toro ana ki ngā wāhi tūmatanui i roto i ngā kōti me ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, me ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga whai taupaepae kiritaki. Me mau ā-ture koe i tētahi ārai kanohi mēnā he kaimahi koe e whai pānga ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi, ratonga rānei e mahi ana i te Pae Mataara 4. Me mau ārai kanohi koe mēnā e mahi ana koe i: tētahi hokomaha, toa, karāti, kaihoko waipiro, kēmehi, pātaka koha kai, whare horoi kaka whaiaro, toa hoko tautara rānei tētahi wāhi anga tūmatanui o tētahi kōti, taraipiunara, tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga rānei, kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori rānei he kaihautū tēkehi, waka kawe-tiri, poti kawe, pahi, tereina rānei mō ngā kawenga tūmatanui - kāore koe e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi i ngā poti kawe i waenga i Te Ika-a-Māui me Te Waipounamu e uru ki tēnei. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Kia mahara koe ki tēnei āhuatanga. E whai āheinga tonu ana rātou ki ngā ratonga kai, kēmehi me ētahi atu ratonga. Mēnā e taea ana, ka akiakitia koe ki te mau i tētahi ārai kanohi. Ko te mau ārai kanohi kāore e hiahiatia: e ngā tamariki i raro i te 12 tau e ngā ākonga i runga pahi kura i ngā ratonga waka kawe pāhihi i waenga i Te Ika-a-Māui me Te Waipounamu i runga poti, kaipuke rānei kāore he wāhi tāparepare mā ngā pāhihi, hei tauira, ngā haerenga waka torohaki i runga haerenga rēti waka, ā-rōpū rānei i runga rerenga tūmataiti e ngā kaihautū waka, rererangi, kaimahi rānei o te ratonga mēnā kei tētahi wāhi tūwehe atu i ngā pāhihi, hei tauira ngā kaihautū rererangi, ngā kaihautū tereina rānei. Kāore hoki koe e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi mēnā: kāore i te haumaru, hei tauira, mēnā kāore e taea e te kaihautū te hautū haumaru i tētahi waka he ohotata he māuiuitanga hauora hinengaro, tinana rānei, he mate, he hauātanga rānei tōu kāore e tika ana kia mau i te ārai kanohi me whakapūmau koe i tō tuakiri me whakawhiti kōrero koe ki tētahi tangata turi, uaua rānei te rongo me kai rongoā koe me kai, me inu rānei koe mēnā e whakaaetia ana te inu me te kai kāore e herea ana e te ture E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Ki te kore e taea e koe te mau i tētahi, ka taea e koe te tiki kāri awere. Ka taea e koe te whakaatu i tō kāri awere i ngā wā e hiahia ana. Ka taea e koe te tono kāri i te Disabled Persons Assembly NZ mā te whakapā atu ki a rātou i 04 801 9100 i info@dpa.org.nz rānei. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te tiaki i tō hapori | Protecting your community Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- He nui pea ngā māharahara me ngā pātai ka toko ake mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate korona. Ka waea atu te kaimahi hauora ki te kōrerorero i ngā take mōu, tae atu ki tōu whānau. Kei konei rātou ki te tautoko me te awhi anō. Ka kōrerohia e rātou ko wai mā te hunga i pāpāngia e koe i ngā rā tata kua mahue ake nei. Ka kōrerohia te whakaneke i a koe – me tōu whānau, mēnā ko te hiahia – ki tētahi puni whakamohoao (external link) e noho āhuru ai koe, hei tāmi hoki i te autaia mate. Ka noho koutou ki te puni kotahi, engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, ākene ka rerekē tō rūma ki ērā o te whānau e noho ora ana. Mēnā kē ko te hiahia a te whānau he noho ki te kāinga ki te noho rāhui, he pai tonu tēnā. Ko te matū ko te noho āhuru a te katoa. He koreutu ngā ratonga whakamohoao, tae atu ki ngā ō kai, ki ngā ō timotimo, te Waiwhai, te horoi kākahu me ngā paramanawa. Ki te māuiui koe, mā te kapa hauora koe e manaaki. Me rapu, me whakapā e ngā kaimahi hauora nga tāngata katoa i pāpāngia e koe, nā reira, ka waea ana rātou ki a koe, kua uia koe ki ōu takahanga katoa i ngā rangi tata nei. Ka whakamahia ēnei pārongo ki te tautohu i te tangata, i te wāhi rānei i pāngia ai koe e te mate korona, me te whakapāpā haere ki ngā tāngata kua pāngia e koe. Ki te tere kitea ōu hoapā, ko te painga atu tērā ki te pēhi i te autaia mate korona. Nuku atu i te tahi haora te roa o te uiui, engari ka taea tētahi wāhanga i runga waea hei whakapoto i te wā ki te māuiui koe. Ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi kaiwhakamārama reo hei whakamāori i ō kōrero. Ka meatia koe kia kamakama te neke ki te puni whakamohoao, e āhuru ai tō noho. Ka āhei hoki te whānau ki te noho tahi ki te puni whakamohoao. Heoi ngā mea māuiui, me noho ki rūmā kē hei wawao i te whānau kāore i te māuiui. Mā tōu whānau anō te whakatau ki te whakamohoao ki te kāinga rānei. Ka kōrero tō kaimahi hauora ki a koe me te tautoko atu i ngā whakaritenga katoa e tae pai ai koe ki te puni. Mēnā he kararehe āu, ka whai wā tonu koe ki te whiriwhiri i ngā manaakitanga mōna. Ki te hia haere koe ki te hōhipera, mā ngā kaimahi o reira e āta mahi kia mahi taratahi e tatū ai ngā manaakitanga hauora mōu. Kāore koe e mate ki te utu i ngā utu hauora e pā ana ki te mate korona. Ka āta mātakihia e ngā kaimahi tō hauora me tō toiora i a koe i te puni whakamohoao. He tino whai ture ngā tikanga akuaku me te noho haumaru. Ka whakamōhio atu te kapa hauora i a koe inā ka mōhio pū rātou kua maunu te mate i a koe. Mēnā e āhua māuiui ana koe, engari kāore he take o te haere ki te hōhipera, 10 rangi te roa me noho whakamohoao koe mai i te wā i tīmata ai te mate. Me wātea koe i ngā māuiui katoa mō te 72 haora i mua i te tukutanga ōu ki te kāinga. Ko ēra e tino māuiui ana, ā, kei rō hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i te tukutanga atu ki te kāinga. Kei ia kēhi āna āhuatanga ake. --- Section Separator --- He nui pea ngā māharahara me ngā pātai ka toko ake mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate korona. Ka waea atu te kaimahi hauora ki te kōrerorero i ngā take mōu, tae atu ki tōu whānau. Kei konei rātou ki te tautoko me te awhi anō. Ka kōrerohia e rātou ko wai mā te hunga i pāpāngia e koe i ngā rā tata kua mahue ake nei. Ka kōrerohia te whakaneke i a koe – me tōu whānau, mēnā ko te hiahia – ki tētahi puni whakamohoao (external link) e noho āhuru ai koe, hei tāmi hoki i te autaia mate. Ka noho koutou ki te puni kotahi, engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, ākene ka rerekē tō rūma ki ērā o te whānau e noho ora ana. Mēnā kē ko te hiahia a te whānau he noho ki te kāinga ki te noho rāhui, he pai tonu tēnā. Ko te matū ko te noho āhuru a te katoa. He koreutu ngā ratonga whakamohoao, tae atu ki ngā ō kai, ki ngā ō timotimo, te Waiwhai, te horoi kākahu me ngā paramanawa. Ki te māuiui koe, mā te kapa hauora koe e manaaki. Me rapu, me whakapā e ngā kaimahi hauora nga tāngata katoa i pāpāngia e koe, nā reira, ka waea ana rātou ki a koe, kua uia koe ki ōu takahanga katoa i ngā rangi tata nei. Ka whakamahia ēnei pārongo ki te tautohu i te tangata, i te wāhi rānei i pāngia ai koe e te mate korona, me te whakapāpā haere ki ngā tāngata kua pāngia e koe. Ki te tere kitea ōu hoapā, ko te painga atu tērā ki te pēhi i te autaia mate korona. Nuku atu i te tahi haora te roa o te uiui, engari ka taea tētahi wāhanga i runga waea hei whakapoto i te wā ki te māuiui koe. Ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi kaiwhakamārama reo hei whakamāori i ō kōrero. Ka meatia koe kia kamakama te neke ki te puni whakamohoao, e āhuru ai tō noho. Ka āhei hoki te whānau ki te noho tahi ki te puni whakamohoao. Heoi ngā mea māuiui, me noho ki rūmā kē hei wawao i te whānau kāore i te māuiui. Mā tōu whānau anō te whakatau ki te whakamohoao ki te kāinga rānei. Ka kōrero tō kaimahi hauora ki a koe me te tautoko atu i ngā whakaritenga katoa e tae pai ai koe ki te puni. Mēnā he kararehe āu, ka whai wā tonu koe ki te whiriwhiri i ngā manaakitanga mōna. Ki te hia haere koe ki te hōhipera, mā ngā kaimahi o reira e āta mahi kia mahi taratahi e tatū ai ngā manaakitanga hauora mōu. Kāore koe e mate ki te utu i ngā utu hauora e pā ana ki te mate korona. Ka āta mātakihia e ngā kaimahi tō hauora me tō toiora i a koe i te puni whakamohoao. He tino whai ture ngā tikanga akuaku me te noho haumaru. Ka whakamōhio atu te kapa hauora i a koe inā ka mōhio pū rātou kua maunu te mate i a koe. Mēnā e āhua māuiui ana koe, engari kāore he take o te haere ki te hōhipera, 10 rangi te roa me noho whakamohoao koe mai i te wā i tīmata ai te mate. Me wātea koe i ngā māuiui katoa mō te 72 haora i mua i te tukutanga ōu ki te kāinga. Ko ēra e tino māuiui ana, ā, kei rō hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i te tukutanga atu ki te kāinga. Kei ia kēhi āna āhuatanga ake. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te tiaki i tō hapori | Protecting your community Te whakamātautau | Testing --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: kua hoki mai koe i tāwāhi i nā tata nei kua pā atu koe ki tētahi kua hoki mai i tāwāhi i nā tata nei he whakapānga tata koe nō tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: kua hoki mai koe i tāwāhi i nā tata nei kua pā atu koe ki tētahi kua hoki mai i tāwāhi i nā tata nei he whakapānga tata koe nō tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā Pāe Mataara | The Alert Levels Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Kei waho tonu rā a KOWHEORI-19. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa me mātua whai: Kia rite tonu te horoi i ngā ringa ki te hopi ka whakamaroke ai, kia whakamahia rānei te patuero ā-ringa. Kia mare, kia matihe rānei ki tō tuke. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei, kia noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, kaua e haere ki te kura, kaua hoki e haere ki te mahi. Kia mau he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe me te hunga e torona rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. He tohutohu mō te haere kia whakamātauria He tohutohu mō te huaketo me ōna tohumate I runga ki nga waka tūmatanui, ai ka ū nga arai mata Mā te ū tonu ki ngā tikanga pai o te uwhi mata e āwhina kia haumaru tonu koe me ētahi atu, ka mutu mā te pērā hoki e kaha kē atu ai te haumarutia ōu i ngā wā e iti ana rānei, e kore ana rānei te tū tīrara a ngā tāngata, hei tauira, i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā hokomaha hoki. He tohutohu mō te uwhi mata Kāore he herenga i runga i ngā huihuinga. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ēnei ngā tangihanga, ngā mārena, ngā huihuinga ā-hāhi me ngā huihuinga ā-hapori, ngā tākaro me ngā mahi a te rēhia. I te Pae Mataara 1, kua herea a KOWHEORI-19 engari ka whai hua tonu te ū kia tū tīrara i te hunga kāore e mōhiotia ana e koe ka puta ana koe ki hea rānei. Mā te pērā e tautāwhi te rerenga o KOWHEORI-19 mehemea ka rere anō te mate i waenga i te hapori. E āhei ana te rere noa o ngā whakahaere a ngā pakihi me ngā wāhi mahi. Me mātua whakaatu tonu rātou i te tohu QR o te NZ COVID Tracer , ā, me mātua whai hoki i pūnaha kē hei whakatewhatewha pāngaā ki ia papa. Me whakaatu tonu ngā waka tūmatanui i ngā tohu QR mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. E āhei ana kia tuwhera noa ngā kura, ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga me ngā kura tuatoru. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. He wā ōna ka āta whakaputaina he pūrongo hei whāngai rānei i te tangata ki te kōrero teka, hei tāware rānei i a rātou. E taupatupatu ana tērā ki a tātou i tēnei wā me mātua mahi ngātahi tātou hei turaki i te huaketo. He tohutohu e mau ai ngā pūrongo e tika ana Kāore anō a KOWHEORI-19 kia herea i tāwāhi. Kei te mau tonu ngā whakaritenga i ō tātou tawhā hei tautāwhi i te tūpono ka rere mai a KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi. Me mātua haere te hunga e tau mai ana ki Aotearoa ki ngā wāhi whakataratahi, atu i ngā wā kua kore e mate ki te pērā (ahakoa pēhea, me noho taratahi tonu). Ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā wāhi whakataratahi, kei ngā wāhi taratahi, kei ngā tūranga mahi hoki e nui ake nei te tūpono ka pāngia e te mate, he rite tonu te whakamātauria mō KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- Kei waho tonu rā a KOWHEORI-19. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa me mātua whai: Kia rite tonu te horoi i ngā ringa ki te hopi ka whakamaroke ai, kia whakamahia rānei te patuero ā-ringa. Kia mare, kia matihe rānei ki tō tuke. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei, kia noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, kaua e haere ki te kura, kaua hoki e haere ki te mahi. Kia mau he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe me te hunga e torona rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. He tohutohu mō te haere kia whakamātauria He tohutohu mō te huaketo me ōna tohumate I runga ki nga waka tūmatanui, ai ka ū nga arai mata Mā te ū tonu ki ngā tikanga pai o te uwhi mata e āwhina kia haumaru tonu koe me ētahi atu, ka mutu mā te pērā hoki e kaha kē atu ai te haumarutia ōu i ngā wā e iti ana rānei, e kore ana rānei te tū tīrara a ngā tāngata, hei tauira, i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā hokomaha hoki. He tohutohu mō te uwhi mata Kāore he herenga i runga i ngā huihuinga. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ēnei ngā tangihanga, ngā mārena, ngā huihuinga ā-hāhi me ngā huihuinga ā-hapori, ngā tākaro me ngā mahi a te rēhia. I te Pae Mataara 1, kua herea a KOWHEORI-19 engari ka whai hua tonu te ū kia tū tīrara i te hunga kāore e mōhiotia ana e koe ka puta ana koe ki hea rānei. Mā te pērā e tautāwhi te rerenga o KOWHEORI-19 mehemea ka rere anō te mate i waenga i te hapori. E āhei ana te rere noa o ngā whakahaere a ngā pakihi me ngā wāhi mahi. Me mātua whakaatu tonu rātou i te tohu QR o te NZ COVID Tracer , ā, me mātua whai hoki i pūnaha kē hei whakatewhatewha pāngaā ki ia papa. Me whakaatu tonu ngā waka tūmatanui i ngā tohu QR mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. E āhei ana kia tuwhera noa ngā kura, ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga me ngā kura tuatoru. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. He wā ōna ka āta whakaputaina he pūrongo hei whāngai rānei i te tangata ki te kōrero teka, hei tāware rānei i a rātou. E taupatupatu ana tērā ki a tātou i tēnei wā me mātua mahi ngātahi tātou hei turaki i te huaketo. He tohutohu e mau ai ngā pūrongo e tika ana Kāore anō a KOWHEORI-19 kia herea i tāwāhi. Kei te mau tonu ngā whakaritenga i ō tātou tawhā hei tautāwhi i te tūpono ka rere mai a KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi. Me mātua haere te hunga e tau mai ana ki Aotearoa ki ngā wāhi whakataratahi, atu i ngā wā kua kore e mate ki te pērā (ahakoa pēhea, me noho taratahi tonu). Ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā wāhi whakataratahi, kei ngā wāhi taratahi, kei ngā tūranga mahi hoki e nui ake nei te tūpono ka pāngia e te mate, he rite tonu te whakamātauria mō KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā Pāe Mataara | The Alert Levels Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, te rewharewha, te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 , ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kia mahara ake,kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. Mēnā he ohotata tōu, kia wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . I te Pae Mataara 2 me: 2 mita te tawhiti atu i ētahi atu mēnā kei waho i te kāinga, 1 mita rānei i ngā wāhi mahi. Mau ārai kanohi mēnā : he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, i ngā wāhi rō whare tūmatanui pēnei i ngā whare pukapuka, whare taonga me ngā mōro . he kaimahi koe e anga atu ana ki te kiritaki i ētahi whare manaaki, whare tūmatanui rānei. he uaua te tū tīrara (ehara i te ture engari e tino whakahaua ana) . he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, i ngā wāhi rō whare tūmatanui pēnei i ngā whare pukapuka, whare taonga me ngā mōro . he kaimahi koe e anga atu ana ki te kiritaki i ētahi whare manaaki, whare tūmatanui rānei. he uaua te tū tīrara (ehara i te ture engari e tino whakahaua ana) . Whai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā tāngata kua kite koe hoki. Whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, te puka NZ COVID tracer, ngā tuhipoka rānei. Noho kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana. Kaua e haere ki te mahi, te kura rānei. Kaua e whakawhanaunga. Waea atu ki a Healthline ki te whakarite whakamātautau mēnā e whakaatu ana koe i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Ina whiwhi koe i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, me noho mohoao i te kāinga, kia puta rā anō ngā hua. Wawe te noho mohoao mēnā koirā te whakahau. Auau te horoi, te whakamaroke hoki i ō ringa. Rapu kōrero atu anō mō: Ngā whakamātautau Ngā wāhi whaipānga Whaiwhai i te pātanga Te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate I ngā huihuinga, taiopenga me ngā whare taiopenga, ka taea te mōrahi o te: 100 tāngata i rō whare kua tautohua, ā, 100 tāngata i ngā wāhi kua tautohua kei waho. Ka pā ēnei herenga ki ngā taiopenga katoa pēnei i te mārena, tangihanga, ngā whakarite, hākinakina hapori me ngā mahi kori, hui ā-whānau me ngā hui tūmataiti. Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi. Mēnā neke atu i te kotahi wāhi tautohu, kua kore e taea e te tangata te whakawhitiwhiti wāhi. Ka uru ki tēnei te tomo, te wehe, te haere rānei ki te wharepaku. Kāore ngā kaimahi e whakarato ratonga ana i te taiopenga e uru ki ngā tepenga huihuinga rō whare, i waho rānei. Mēnā he tāngata ōu kei ngā wāhi rō whare, waho hoki, me mātua whakarite kia kaua ngā rōpū e rua e pāhekoheko. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, me noho wehe ngā tomokanga ki ngā wāhi tiri - hei tauira, ngā wharepkau, ngā taupaepae rānei e haere atu ai te tangata ki te tono, te utu rānei. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā huihuinga i te Pae Mataara 2 Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, me noho i te kāinga. Mēnā e ora ana, ka taea e koe te hāereere i te Pae Mataara 2, tae atu ki ētahi atu rohe kei te Pae Mataara 2. Me whakarite koe kia haumaru tō mahi i taua mahi. Kāore rawa e whakaaetia ana te whakawhiti i te paewhenua Pae Mataara mō ngā haerenga whaiaro. Hei āwhina tēnei ki te aukati i te horahanga o te huaketo. Ka taea anake te whakawhiti i te paewhenua Pae Mataara mēnā e whakaaetia ana tērā haerenga. E whakaaetia ana ētahi haere pakihi. E whakaaetia ana ētahi haerenga whaiaro, hei tauira, mō ngā take hauora, ngā ohotata, te tuku manaaki, tautoko rānei ki tētahi atu e noho whāomoomo ana e whai mate tuamatanga ana rānei, e tiri ana i te tiakanga tamariki rānei. Mēnā e whakawhiti ana i te ripa mō ngā take kua whakaaetia, me kawe koe i te taunakitanga tika. Mēnā kāore e whakaaetia ana tō take whakawhiti ripa, ka taea e koe te tono whakawāteatanga. Me tutuki i tō tono ētahi paearu e hāngai ana. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te hāereere, te nekehanga me ngā whakawāteatanga I te Pae Mataara 2, ka taea ō hākinakina, mahi kori auau hoki, mēnā he haumaru te mahi. Engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, me noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe ngā mahi pēnei i te: hīkoi, eke pahikara me te whakangau i runga whenua rāhui tūmatanui kaukau i tētahi puna kaukau tūmatanui, engari tērā ngā here haere ki te whare kori, engari tērā ngā here haere i runga poti, ngā hākinakina i runga i te wai Me tutuki hoki i te hākinakina me ngā mahi rēhia ngā aratohu mō ngā huihuinga me te pupuri rekoata. He uaua te mahi kori me ngā hākinakina i te wā e mau ārai kanohi ana, nō reira kāore te ture ārai kanohi e whai pānga ki ngā mahi kori. I ngā taiao whare kori, me 2 mita te tawhiti i ētahi atu, ko te tikanga o tērā ka iti noa iho pea te hunga e āhei ana ki ngā wāhi kori kei rō whare. I te wā e kori tinana ana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, kia 2 mita te tawhiti i ētahi atu tāngata kāore koe i te mōhio i ngā wā e taea ana. Me mau ārai kanohi i ētahi tū wāhi, tae atu ki ngā waka tūmatanui, te toro i ngā whare hauora, i ngā hokomaha me ētahi atu wāhi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi, me te noho kia 2m te tawhiti i ētahi atu i tō wehenga i te kāinga. Inarā mēnā he uaua ki te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Hei tauira, i te kohinga o ngā ō rangaranga. Rapua ngā wā me mau ārai waha koe Mēnā raru ana koe ki te taha pūtea, kai, tō oranga hinengaro, tinana rānei, tērā pea he tautoko e wātea ana. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ētahi mōhiohio mō ngā tautoko mā te tangata kotahi Pāwhiri ki konei mō ētahi mōhiohio mō ngā tautoko mā ngā pakihi E tūwhera ana ngā whare ako kōhungahunga katoa, me ngā kura ki ngā reanga katoa. He haumaru tonu te haere a ngā tamariki ki te kura. Me noho ngā tamariki me ngā taiohi ki te kāinga mēnā: e māuiui ana he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ō rātou e noho mohoao ana e tatari ana ki ngā hua o tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi te hunga pakeke ake i te 12 tau i te kura. Ka taea e ngā wāhi pakihi te noho tuwhera ki ngā kaimahi me ngā kiritaki mēnā e tutuki ana ngā here hauora tūmatanui katoa. Ko ngā here hauora tūmatanui ko te: whakaatu i tētahi pānui waehere QR taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, me te whai i ētahi atu pūnaha whaiwhai pātanga rerekē; ā, me te whai i ngā tikanga akuaku pēnei i te horoi ringa me te horoi auau i ngā mata, ā, me te whai i ngā aratohu tū tirara. Ka taea tonu e ngā ratonga ka whakaratoa i ngā wāhi kiritaki (pēnei i ō rātou kāinga ake), me ngā ratonga pānga tata (hei tauira, ngā kaihaumanu rerehua me ngā kaikuti makawe) te whakahaere mēnā ka tutuki i a rātou ngā tikanga hauora tūmatanui. Me mau ārai kanohi katoa te hunga e mahi ana i tētahi ratonga pānga tata. Ki te kore e taea e te wāhi mahi te whakatutuki i ēnei tikanga, e kore e taea e ia te whakahaere. E whakahaua ana ngā pakihi katoa ki te whakamahi i ētahi atu huarahi mahi mēnā ka taea, ā, me kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā mōrearea, ā, me pēhea te whakahaere. Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi te katoa o ngā here hauora me te haumaru, te tiaki i ngā kaimahi, ā, me te whakatutuki i ngā paerewa tuku mahi mōkito rawa. E ai ki te ture, me whai tukanga ngā pakihi me ngā kaiwhakarite taiopenga e taea ai te rekoata i tō toronga. Me whai huarahi nui atu i te kotahi mō te pūrongo i te toronga o te tangata, inarā mō te hunga kāore e taea e rātou te matawai i ngā waehere QR. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā whare kawhe, ngā whare kai, ngā wāhi inu waipiro, ngā whare petipeti, ngā kōnehete, ngā whare kaumātua, ngā whare hauora (hāunga ngā tūroro), ngā kaikuti makawe, ngā whare kori, whare kanikani, whare pukapuka, kōti, tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, me ngā kaituku ratonga pāpori e whai wāhi taupaepae ana. Koinei ētahi momo rekoata i tō toronga: te pātai i te tangata kia matawai mā te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer te rekoata ā-ringa i ngā taipitopito a ō kiritaki, manuhiri hoki. te whakarato puka tuhi hei whakakī mā ngā kiritaki me ngā manuhiri ki ō rātou taipitopito, ā, ka rau ki tētahi pouaka kohi te whakamahi i ō pūnaha puri rekoata, pēnei i te āheinga kāri miri, te whakarite tāpui rānei. Me haere tonu te mahi a ngā pakihi ki te whakaatu i te tohu waehere QR, ahakoa kāore e hiahiatia ana ki te kohi i ngā rekoata kiritaki. He mōhiohio whaiaro ngā rekaota whakapā. Me haumaru te kohi, te whakamahi, te puri, te whāki, ā, me te porowhiu i runga anō i ngā tikanga o te Privacy Act 2020. He nui ake pea ngā hiahia haumaru o ngā pūnaha rekoata rerekē. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā mōhiohio e pā ana ki te puri rekoata me te whaiwhai i te pātanga mā ngā pakihi Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā Pae Mataara katoa Ina pā he ohotata, whāia ngā aratohu ohotata whānui, tohutohu rānei mai i ngā mana ohotata. Ko tō haumarutanga te mea nui. Kia haumaru koe, whāia ngā whakatūpato ki te ārai i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i te tū tīrara, te mau ārai kanohi rānei. Mēnā he mōreareatanga ki tō oranga, kāinga rānei, me waea ki 111 ka tono i te Pirihimana, Whakaratonga Iwi, Waka Tūroro rānei. Rapu me aha koe i te wā o te ohotata --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, te rewharewha, te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 , ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kia mahara ake,kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. Mēnā he ohotata tōu, kia wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- I te Pae Mataara 2 me: 2 mita te tawhiti atu i ētahi atu mēnā kei waho i te kāinga, 1 mita rānei i ngā wāhi mahi. Mau ārai kanohi mēnā : he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, i ngā wāhi rō whare tūmatanui pēnei i ngā whare pukapuka, whare taonga me ngā mōro . he kaimahi koe e anga atu ana ki te kiritaki i ētahi whare manaaki, whare tūmatanui rānei. he uaua te tū tīrara (ehara i te ture engari e tino whakahaua ana) . he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, i ngā wāhi rō whare tūmatanui pēnei i ngā whare pukapuka, whare taonga me ngā mōro . he kaimahi koe e anga atu ana ki te kiritaki i ētahi whare manaaki, whare tūmatanui rānei. he uaua te tū tīrara (ehara i te ture engari e tino whakahaua ana) . Whai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā tāngata kua kite koe hoki. Whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, te puka NZ COVID tracer, ngā tuhipoka rānei. Noho kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana. Kaua e haere ki te mahi, te kura rānei. Kaua e whakawhanaunga. Waea atu ki a Healthline ki te whakarite whakamātautau mēnā e whakaatu ana koe i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Ina whiwhi koe i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, me noho mohoao i te kāinga, kia puta rā anō ngā hua. Wawe te noho mohoao mēnā koirā te whakahau. Auau te horoi, te whakamaroke hoki i ō ringa. Rapu kōrero atu anō mō: Ngā whakamātautau Ngā wāhi whaipānga Whaiwhai i te pātanga Te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate I ngā huihuinga, taiopenga me ngā whare taiopenga, ka taea te mōrahi o te: 100 tāngata i rō whare kua tautohua, ā, 100 tāngata i ngā wāhi kua tautohua kei waho. Ka pā ēnei herenga ki ngā taiopenga katoa pēnei i te mārena, tangihanga, ngā whakarite, hākinakina hapori me ngā mahi kori, hui ā-whānau me ngā hui tūmataiti. Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi. Mēnā neke atu i te kotahi wāhi tautohu, kua kore e taea e te tangata te whakawhitiwhiti wāhi. Ka uru ki tēnei te tomo, te wehe, te haere rānei ki te wharepaku. Kāore ngā kaimahi e whakarato ratonga ana i te taiopenga e uru ki ngā tepenga huihuinga rō whare, i waho rānei. Mēnā he tāngata ōu kei ngā wāhi rō whare, waho hoki, me mātua whakarite kia kaua ngā rōpū e rua e pāhekoheko. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, me noho wehe ngā tomokanga ki ngā wāhi tiri - hei tauira, ngā wharepkau, ngā taupaepae rānei e haere atu ai te tangata ki te tono, te utu rānei. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā huihuinga i te Pae Mataara 2 Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, me noho i te kāinga. Mēnā e ora ana, ka taea e koe te hāereere i te Pae Mataara 2, tae atu ki ētahi atu rohe kei te Pae Mataara 2. Me whakarite koe kia haumaru tō mahi i taua mahi. Kāore rawa e whakaaetia ana te whakawhiti i te paewhenua Pae Mataara mō ngā haerenga whaiaro. Hei āwhina tēnei ki te aukati i te horahanga o te huaketo. Ka taea anake te whakawhiti i te paewhenua Pae Mataara mēnā e whakaaetia ana tērā haerenga. E whakaaetia ana ētahi haere pakihi. E whakaaetia ana ētahi haerenga whaiaro, hei tauira, mō ngā take hauora, ngā ohotata, te tuku manaaki, tautoko rānei ki tētahi atu e noho whāomoomo ana e whai mate tuamatanga ana rānei, e tiri ana i te tiakanga tamariki rānei. Mēnā e whakawhiti ana i te ripa mō ngā take kua whakaaetia, me kawe koe i te taunakitanga tika. Mēnā kāore e whakaaetia ana tō take whakawhiti ripa, ka taea e koe te tono whakawāteatanga. Me tutuki i tō tono ētahi paearu e hāngai ana. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te hāereere, te nekehanga me ngā whakawāteatanga I te Pae Mataara 2, ka taea ō hākinakina, mahi kori auau hoki, mēnā he haumaru te mahi. Engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, me noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe ngā mahi pēnei i te: hīkoi, eke pahikara me te whakangau i runga whenua rāhui tūmatanui kaukau i tētahi puna kaukau tūmatanui, engari tērā ngā here haere ki te whare kori, engari tērā ngā here haere i runga poti, ngā hākinakina i runga i te wai Me tutuki hoki i te hākinakina me ngā mahi rēhia ngā aratohu mō ngā huihuinga me te pupuri rekoata. He uaua te mahi kori me ngā hākinakina i te wā e mau ārai kanohi ana, nō reira kāore te ture ārai kanohi e whai pānga ki ngā mahi kori. I ngā taiao whare kori, me 2 mita te tawhiti i ētahi atu, ko te tikanga o tērā ka iti noa iho pea te hunga e āhei ana ki ngā wāhi kori kei rō whare. I te wā e kori tinana ana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, kia 2 mita te tawhiti i ētahi atu tāngata kāore koe i te mōhio i ngā wā e taea ana. Me mau ārai kanohi i ētahi tū wāhi, tae atu ki ngā waka tūmatanui, te toro i ngā whare hauora, i ngā hokomaha me ētahi atu wāhi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi, me te noho kia 2m te tawhiti i ētahi atu i tō wehenga i te kāinga. Inarā mēnā he uaua ki te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Hei tauira, i te kohinga o ngā ō rangaranga. Rapua ngā wā me mau ārai waha koe Mēnā raru ana koe ki te taha pūtea, kai, tō oranga hinengaro, tinana rānei, tērā pea he tautoko e wātea ana. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ētahi mōhiohio mō ngā tautoko mā te tangata kotahi Pāwhiri ki konei mō ētahi mōhiohio mō ngā tautoko mā ngā pakihi E tūwhera ana ngā whare ako kōhungahunga katoa, me ngā kura ki ngā reanga katoa. He haumaru tonu te haere a ngā tamariki ki te kura. Me noho ngā tamariki me ngā taiohi ki te kāinga mēnā: e māuiui ana he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ō rātou e noho mohoao ana e tatari ana ki ngā hua o tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi te hunga pakeke ake i te 12 tau i te kura. Ka taea e ngā wāhi pakihi te noho tuwhera ki ngā kaimahi me ngā kiritaki mēnā e tutuki ana ngā here hauora tūmatanui katoa. Ko ngā here hauora tūmatanui ko te: whakaatu i tētahi pānui waehere QR taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, me te whai i ētahi atu pūnaha whaiwhai pātanga rerekē; ā, me te whai i ngā tikanga akuaku pēnei i te horoi ringa me te horoi auau i ngā mata, ā, me te whai i ngā aratohu tū tirara. Ka taea tonu e ngā ratonga ka whakaratoa i ngā wāhi kiritaki (pēnei i ō rātou kāinga ake), me ngā ratonga pānga tata (hei tauira, ngā kaihaumanu rerehua me ngā kaikuti makawe) te whakahaere mēnā ka tutuki i a rātou ngā tikanga hauora tūmatanui. Me mau ārai kanohi katoa te hunga e mahi ana i tētahi ratonga pānga tata. Ki te kore e taea e te wāhi mahi te whakatutuki i ēnei tikanga, e kore e taea e ia te whakahaere. E whakahaua ana ngā pakihi katoa ki te whakamahi i ētahi atu huarahi mahi mēnā ka taea, ā, me kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā mōrearea, ā, me pēhea te whakahaere. Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi te katoa o ngā here hauora me te haumaru, te tiaki i ngā kaimahi, ā, me te whakatutuki i ngā paerewa tuku mahi mōkito rawa. E ai ki te ture, me whai tukanga ngā pakihi me ngā kaiwhakarite taiopenga e taea ai te rekoata i tō toronga. Me whai huarahi nui atu i te kotahi mō te pūrongo i te toronga o te tangata, inarā mō te hunga kāore e taea e rātou te matawai i ngā waehere QR. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā whare kawhe, ngā whare kai, ngā wāhi inu waipiro, ngā whare petipeti, ngā kōnehete, ngā whare kaumātua, ngā whare hauora (hāunga ngā tūroro), ngā kaikuti makawe, ngā whare kori, whare kanikani, whare pukapuka, kōti, tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, me ngā kaituku ratonga pāpori e whai wāhi taupaepae ana. Koinei ētahi momo rekoata i tō toronga: te pātai i te tangata kia matawai mā te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer te rekoata ā-ringa i ngā taipitopito a ō kiritaki, manuhiri hoki. te whakarato puka tuhi hei whakakī mā ngā kiritaki me ngā manuhiri ki ō rātou taipitopito, ā, ka rau ki tētahi pouaka kohi te whakamahi i ō pūnaha puri rekoata, pēnei i te āheinga kāri miri, te whakarite tāpui rānei. Me haere tonu te mahi a ngā pakihi ki te whakaatu i te tohu waehere QR, ahakoa kāore e hiahiatia ana ki te kohi i ngā rekoata kiritaki. He mōhiohio whaiaro ngā rekaota whakapā. Me haumaru te kohi, te whakamahi, te puri, te whāki, ā, me te porowhiu i runga anō i ngā tikanga o te Privacy Act 2020. He nui ake pea ngā hiahia haumaru o ngā pūnaha rekoata rerekē. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā mōhiohio e pā ana ki te puri rekoata me te whaiwhai i te pātanga mā ngā pakihi Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā Pae Mataara katoa Ina pā he ohotata, whāia ngā aratohu ohotata whānui, tohutohu rānei mai i ngā mana ohotata. Ko tō haumarutanga te mea nui. Kia haumaru koe, whāia ngā whakatūpato ki te ārai i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i te tū tīrara, te mau ārai kanohi rānei. Mēnā he mōreareatanga ki tō oranga, kāinga rānei, me waea ki 111 ka tono i te Pirihimana, Whakaratonga Iwi, Waka Tūroro rānei. Rapu me aha koe i te wā o te ohotata --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā Pāe Mataara | The Alert Levels Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 --- Section Separator --- 12 o Whiringa-ā-nuku 2021 Kei te Pae Mataara 3 tonu a Tāmaki Makaurau, ahakoa kua whakamāmātia ētahi o ngā here. Ināianei ka taea e koe: he huihuinga pāpori i waho me ngā whare e rua, atu ki te 10 tāngata. te hāereere puta noa i te rohe o Tāmaki Makaurau ki te mahi i ētahi atu mahi pēnei i te hahau pōro, te whakangau, te whakatere waka, te hī ika, te ruku, wakareti wai, me te rere ā-ngahau. I te mōrahi o ngā whare e rua, tokorua anake ngā tāngata e āhei ana ki te hui tahi. te haere ki ngā karaehe kori ā-waho (pēnei i te yoga) me te mōrahi o te 10 tāngata (e pai ana mēnā nō ngā whare rerekē), ka uru hoki te kaiako. Me mau tonu i te 2 mita o te tū tīrara. Ka taea e ngā tamariki te hoki ki ngā whare ako kōhungahunga, me te mōrahi o te 10 tamariki i ia kāhui rāhui. Me mau ārai kanohi ngā mātua me ngā kaitiaki i te wāhi kohi, whakataka hoki. Ka rerekē pea ēnei here i runga anō i te āhua o ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Rapua ngā mōhiohio hou rawa mō ngā tautuhinga Pae Mataara 3 o Tāmaki Makaurau Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, te rewharewha, te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 , ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kia mahara ake,kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. Mēnā he ohotata tōu, kia wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . I te Pae Mataara 3 me: 2 mita te tawhiti atu i ētahi atu mēnā kei waho i te kāinga, 1 mita rānei i ngā wāhi mahi. Mau ārai kanohi mēnā: he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, i ngā wāhi rō whare tūmatanui pēnei i ngā whare pukapuka, whare taonga me ngā mōro. he kaimahi koe e anga atu ana ki te kiritaki i ētahi whare manaaki, whare tūmatanui rānei. he uaua te tū tīrara (ehara i te ture engari e tino whakahaua ana). he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, i ngā wāhi rō whare tūmatanui pēnei i ngā whare pukapuka, whare taonga me ngā mōro. he kaimahi koe e anga atu ana ki te kiritaki i ētahi whare manaaki, whare tūmatanui rānei. he uaua te tū tīrara (ehara i te ture engari e tino whakahaua ana). Whai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā tāngata kua kite koe hoki. Whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, te puka NZ COVID tracer, ngā tuhipoka rānei. Noho kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana. Kaua e haere ki te mahi, te kura rānei. Kaua e whakawhanaunga. Waea atu ki a Healthline ki te whakarite whakamātautau mēnā e whakaatu ana koe i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Ina whiwhi koe i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, me noho mohoao i te kāinga, kia puta rā anō ngā hua. Wawe te noho mohoao mēnā koirā te whakahau. Auau te horoi, te whakamaroke hoki i ō ringa. Rapu kōrero atu anō mō: Ngā whakamātautau Ngā wāhi whaipānga Whaiwhai i te pātanga Te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate I te Pae Mataara 3, e herea ana koe e te ture ki te noho i tō kāhui rāhui kāinga mēnā kāore koe i te mahi, te kura rānei. Ko tō kāhui rāhui kāinga te rōpū tāngata he whakapānga ā-tinana tāu ki a rātou i ia rā. I te Pae Mataara 3, ka uru hoki te hunga e noho tahi ana i tō kāinga, ā, mēnā e tika ana, ngā whānau tata, te hunga mohoao, kaitiaki rānei. Me noho whāiti tonu tō kāhui rāhui. E kore e taea te pōhiri hoa, whānau rānei kāore i roto i tō kāhui rāhui, kia haere ki tō kāinga. Te tūtaki ki ō hoa me te whānau i te Pae Mataara 3 E whakaaetia ana ngā huihuinga o te 10 tāngata iti ake rānei, heoi anō, mō ngā mārena, ngā nehunga me ngā tangihanga anake. Ā-ture nei me tū tīrara, me whai hoki i ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā huihuinga i te Pae Mataara 3 He tepenga tō ngā nekehanga whaiaro, pakihi hoki i te Pae Mataara 3, i waenga hoki i ngā rohe Pae Mataara 3 me ētahi atu rohe Pae Mataara. Hei āwhina tēnei ki te aukati i te horahanga o te huaketo. Kua whakaaetia ētahi haerenga pakihi, hei tauira e mahi ana koe mō tētahi pakihi, ratonga rānei kei te Pae Mataara 4. E whakaaetia ana ētahi haerenga whaiaro, hei tauira, mō ngā take hauora, ngā ohotata, te tuku manaaki, tautoko rānei ki tētahi atu e noho whāomoomo ana e whai mate tuamatanga ana rānei, e tiri ana i te tiakanga tamariki rānei. Mēnā e haere ana mō ngā take kua whakaaetia, me kawe koe i te taunakitanga tika. Mēnā kāore e whakaaetia ana tō take haere, ka taea e koe te tono whakawāteatanga. Me tutuki i tō tono ētahi paearu e hāngai ana. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te hāereere, te nekehanga me ngā whakawāteatanga I te Pae Mataara 3, ka taea e koe te kori takitahi i tō rohe tata, i te taha o ētahi atu hunga rānei o tō kāhui rāhui kāinga. Ko te mea nui katoa kia noho haumaru, kia noho tata ki tō kāinga. Haere ki tō paparēhia, ākau tata rānei, kaua ki tō mea kaingākau. Me kuhu ki ngā mahi mōrearea iti, kāore nei e hiahiatia ana ngā ratonga whakaora, hauora rānei. Ngā hākinakina me ngā mahi a rēhia i te Pae Mataara 3 Me mau ārai kanohi i ētahi tū wāhi, tae atu ki ngā waka tūmatanui, te toro i ngā whare hauora, i ngā hokomaha me ētahi atu wāhi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi, me te noho kia 2m te tawhiti i ētahi atu i tō wehenga i te kāinga. Inarā mēnā he uaua ki te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Hei tauira, i te kohinga o ngā ō rangaranga. Rapua ngā wā me mau ārai waha koe Mēnā raru ana koe ki te taha pūtea, kai, tō oranga hinengaro, tinana rānei, tērā pea he tautoko e wātea ana. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ētahi mōhiohio mō ngā tautoko mā te tangata kotahi Pāwhiri ki konei mō ētahi mōhiohio mō ngā tautoko mā ngā pakihi E tuwhera ana ngā whare kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā pūtahitanga mātauranga matua mā ngā tamariki i raro i te 14 tau te pakeke, a ngā mātua me ngā kaitiaki ka mate ki te hoki ā-kanohi ki te mahi anake. E pai ana kia hoki ēnei tamariki ki te kura, ā, ka whakaritea ngā kāhui rāhui iti o ngā ākonga me ngā kaiako. Kua katia nga wāhi tūmatanui. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā whare pukapuka, ngā whare taonga, ngā whare pikitia, ngā wāhi kai, ngā whare kori tinana, ngā puna kaukau, ngā paparēhia me ngā mākete. Ehara tēnei i te wā hou ki te kuhu ki ētahi mahi hou, te whakaraerae rānei i a koe, tō kāhui rāhui rānei ki te mōrearea. Ka taea ngā mahi rēhia mōrearea iti i tō rohe paetata. I te Pae Mataara 3, me mahi te katoa mai i te kāinga mēnā ka taea. Mēnā he pānga tata ā-tinana kei roto i ngā mahi a tō pakihi, e kore e whakaaehia kia tuwhera.Ka taea e ērā atu pakihi te mahi, engari tērā ngā here. Arā: ngā here tū tīrara kia nui ake ngā tikanga akuaku te horoi me te paturopi auau i ngā mata tiri te whiwhi i ngā kōwhiringa pānga kore mō te tono, te tiki, te kawe me te utu. te whakarite i te maunga a ngā kaimahi, ngā kiritaki me ngā manuhiri i ngā ārai kanohi mēnā e tika ana. He iti noa ngā pakihi e āhei atu ai ngā kiritaki te toro atu ki ō rātou wāhi mahi, rapua ko ēhea aua pakihi . Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi te katoa o ngā here hauora me te haumaru, te tiaki i ngā kaimahi, ā, me te whakatutuki i ngā paerewa tuku mahi mōkito rawa. E ākina ana ngā pakihi ki te kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā mōreareatanga me ngā huarahi whakahaere i aua mōreareatanga E ai ki te ture, me whai tukanga ngā pakihi me ngā kaiwhakarite taiopenga e taea ai te rekoata i tō toronga. Me whai huarahi nui atu i te kotahi mō te pūrongo i te toronga o te tangata, inarā mō te hunga kāore e taea e rātou te matawai i ngā waehere QR. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā whare kawhe, ngā whare kai, ngā wāhi inu waipiro, ngā whare petipeti, ngā kōnehete, ngā whare kaumātua, ngā whare hauora (hāunga ngā tūroro), ngā kaikuti makawe, ngā whare kori, whare kanikani, whare pukapuka, kōti, tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, me ngā kaituku ratonga pāpori e whai wāhi taupaepae ana. Koinei ētahi momo rekoata i tō toronga: te pātai i te tangata kia matawai mā te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer te rekoata ā-ringa i ngā taipitopito a ō kiritaki, manuhiri hoki. te whakarato puka tuhi hei whakakī mā ngā kiritaki me ngā manuhiri ki ō rātou taipitopito, ā, ka rau ki tētahi pouaka kohi mā te whakamahi ō pūnaha puri rekoata, pēnei i te āheinga kāri miri, te whakarite tāpui rānei. Me haere tonu te mahi a ngā pakihi ki te whakaatu i te tohu waehere QR, ahakoa kāore e hiahiatia ana ki te kohi i ngā rekoata kiritaki. He mōhiohio whaiaro ngā rekaota whakapā. Me haumaru te kohi, te whakamahi, te puri, te whāki, ā, me te porowhiu i runga anō i ngā tikanga o te Privacy Act 2020. He nui ake pea ngā hiahia haumaru o ngā pūnaha rekoata rerekē. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā mōhiohio e pā ana ki te puri rekoata me te whaiwhai i te pātanga mā ngā pakihi Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā Pae Mataara katoa Ina pā he ohotata, whāia ngā aratohu ohotata whānui, tohutohu rānei mai i ngā mana ohotata. Ko tō haumarutanga te mea nui. Kia haumaru koe, whāia ngā whakatūpato ki te ārai i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i te tū tīrara, te mau ārai kanohi rānei. Mēnā he mōreareatanga ki tō oranga, kāinga rānei, me waea ki 111 ka tono i te Pirihimana, Whakaratonga Iwi, Waka Tūroro rānei. Rapu me aha koe i te wā o te ohotata --- Section Separator --- 12 o Whiringa-ā-nuku 2021 Kei te Pae Mataara 3 tonu a Tāmaki Makaurau, ahakoa kua whakamāmātia ētahi o ngā here. Ināianei ka taea e koe: he huihuinga pāpori i waho me ngā whare e rua, atu ki te 10 tāngata. te hāereere puta noa i te rohe o Tāmaki Makaurau ki te mahi i ētahi atu mahi pēnei i te hahau pōro, te whakangau, te whakatere waka, te hī ika, te ruku, wakareti wai, me te rere ā-ngahau. I te mōrahi o ngā whare e rua, tokorua anake ngā tāngata e āhei ana ki te hui tahi. te haere ki ngā karaehe kori ā-waho (pēnei i te yoga) me te mōrahi o te 10 tāngata (e pai ana mēnā nō ngā whare rerekē), ka uru hoki te kaiako. Me mau tonu i te 2 mita o te tū tīrara. Ka taea e ngā tamariki te hoki ki ngā whare ako kōhungahunga, me te mōrahi o te 10 tamariki i ia kāhui rāhui. Me mau ārai kanohi ngā mātua me ngā kaitiaki i te wāhi kohi, whakataka hoki. Ka rerekē pea ēnei here i runga anō i te āhua o ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Rapua ngā mōhiohio hou rawa mō ngā tautuhinga Pae Mataara 3 o Tāmaki Makaurau --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, te rewharewha, te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 , ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kia mahara ake,kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. Mēnā he ohotata tōu, kia wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- I te Pae Mataara 3 me: 2 mita te tawhiti atu i ētahi atu mēnā kei waho i te kāinga, 1 mita rānei i ngā wāhi mahi. Mau ārai kanohi mēnā: he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, i ngā wāhi rō whare tūmatanui pēnei i ngā whare pukapuka, whare taonga me ngā mōro. he kaimahi koe e anga atu ana ki te kiritaki i ētahi whare manaaki, whare tūmatanui rānei. he uaua te tū tīrara (ehara i te ture engari e tino whakahaua ana). he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, i ngā wāhi rō whare tūmatanui pēnei i ngā whare pukapuka, whare taonga me ngā mōro. he kaimahi koe e anga atu ana ki te kiritaki i ētahi whare manaaki, whare tūmatanui rānei. he uaua te tū tīrara (ehara i te ture engari e tino whakahaua ana). Whai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā tāngata kua kite koe hoki. Whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, te puka NZ COVID tracer, ngā tuhipoka rānei. Noho kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana. Kaua e haere ki te mahi, te kura rānei. Kaua e whakawhanaunga. Waea atu ki a Healthline ki te whakarite whakamātautau mēnā e whakaatu ana koe i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Ina whiwhi koe i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, me noho mohoao i te kāinga, kia puta rā anō ngā hua. Wawe te noho mohoao mēnā koirā te whakahau. Auau te horoi, te whakamaroke hoki i ō ringa. Rapu kōrero atu anō mō: Ngā whakamātautau Ngā wāhi whaipānga Whaiwhai i te pātanga Te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate I te Pae Mataara 3, e herea ana koe e te ture ki te noho i tō kāhui rāhui kāinga mēnā kāore koe i te mahi, te kura rānei. Ko tō kāhui rāhui kāinga te rōpū tāngata he whakapānga ā-tinana tāu ki a rātou i ia rā. I te Pae Mataara 3, ka uru hoki te hunga e noho tahi ana i tō kāinga, ā, mēnā e tika ana, ngā whānau tata, te hunga mohoao, kaitiaki rānei. Me noho whāiti tonu tō kāhui rāhui. E kore e taea te pōhiri hoa, whānau rānei kāore i roto i tō kāhui rāhui, kia haere ki tō kāinga. Te tūtaki ki ō hoa me te whānau i te Pae Mataara 3 E whakaaetia ana ngā huihuinga o te 10 tāngata iti ake rānei, heoi anō, mō ngā mārena, ngā nehunga me ngā tangihanga anake. Ā-ture nei me tū tīrara, me whai hoki i ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā huihuinga i te Pae Mataara 3 He tepenga tō ngā nekehanga whaiaro, pakihi hoki i te Pae Mataara 3, i waenga hoki i ngā rohe Pae Mataara 3 me ētahi atu rohe Pae Mataara. Hei āwhina tēnei ki te aukati i te horahanga o te huaketo. Kua whakaaetia ētahi haerenga pakihi, hei tauira e mahi ana koe mō tētahi pakihi, ratonga rānei kei te Pae Mataara 4. E whakaaetia ana ētahi haerenga whaiaro, hei tauira, mō ngā take hauora, ngā ohotata, te tuku manaaki, tautoko rānei ki tētahi atu e noho whāomoomo ana e whai mate tuamatanga ana rānei, e tiri ana i te tiakanga tamariki rānei. Mēnā e haere ana mō ngā take kua whakaaetia, me kawe koe i te taunakitanga tika. Mēnā kāore e whakaaetia ana tō take haere, ka taea e koe te tono whakawāteatanga. Me tutuki i tō tono ētahi paearu e hāngai ana. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te hāereere, te nekehanga me ngā whakawāteatanga I te Pae Mataara 3, ka taea e koe te kori takitahi i tō rohe tata, i te taha o ētahi atu hunga rānei o tō kāhui rāhui kāinga. Ko te mea nui katoa kia noho haumaru, kia noho tata ki tō kāinga. Haere ki tō paparēhia, ākau tata rānei, kaua ki tō mea kaingākau. Me kuhu ki ngā mahi mōrearea iti, kāore nei e hiahiatia ana ngā ratonga whakaora, hauora rānei. Ngā hākinakina me ngā mahi a rēhia i te Pae Mataara 3 Me mau ārai kanohi i ētahi tū wāhi, tae atu ki ngā waka tūmatanui, te toro i ngā whare hauora, i ngā hokomaha me ētahi atu wāhi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe ki te mau ārai kanohi, me te noho kia 2m te tawhiti i ētahi atu i tō wehenga i te kāinga. Inarā mēnā he uaua ki te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Hei tauira, i te kohinga o ngā ō rangaranga. Rapua ngā wā me mau ārai waha koe Mēnā raru ana koe ki te taha pūtea, kai, tō oranga hinengaro, tinana rānei, tērā pea he tautoko e wātea ana. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ētahi mōhiohio mō ngā tautoko mā te tangata kotahi Pāwhiri ki konei mō ētahi mōhiohio mō ngā tautoko mā ngā pakihi E tuwhera ana ngā whare kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā pūtahitanga mātauranga matua mā ngā tamariki i raro i te 14 tau te pakeke, a ngā mātua me ngā kaitiaki ka mate ki te hoki ā-kanohi ki te mahi anake. E pai ana kia hoki ēnei tamariki ki te kura, ā, ka whakaritea ngā kāhui rāhui iti o ngā ākonga me ngā kaiako. Kua katia nga wāhi tūmatanui. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā whare pukapuka, ngā whare taonga, ngā whare pikitia, ngā wāhi kai, ngā whare kori tinana, ngā puna kaukau, ngā paparēhia me ngā mākete. Ehara tēnei i te wā hou ki te kuhu ki ētahi mahi hou, te whakaraerae rānei i a koe, tō kāhui rāhui rānei ki te mōrearea. Ka taea ngā mahi rēhia mōrearea iti i tō rohe paetata. I te Pae Mataara 3, me mahi te katoa mai i te kāinga mēnā ka taea. Mēnā he pānga tata ā-tinana kei roto i ngā mahi a tō pakihi, e kore e whakaaehia kia tuwhera.Ka taea e ērā atu pakihi te mahi, engari tērā ngā here. Arā: ngā here tū tīrara kia nui ake ngā tikanga akuaku te horoi me te paturopi auau i ngā mata tiri te whiwhi i ngā kōwhiringa pānga kore mō te tono, te tiki, te kawe me te utu. te whakarite i te maunga a ngā kaimahi, ngā kiritaki me ngā manuhiri i ngā ārai kanohi mēnā e tika ana. He iti noa ngā pakihi e āhei atu ai ngā kiritaki te toro atu ki ō rātou wāhi mahi, rapua ko ēhea aua pakihi . Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi te katoa o ngā here hauora me te haumaru, te tiaki i ngā kaimahi, ā, me te whakatutuki i ngā paerewa tuku mahi mōkito rawa. E ākina ana ngā pakihi ki te kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā mōreareatanga me ngā huarahi whakahaere i aua mōreareatanga E ai ki te ture, me whai tukanga ngā pakihi me ngā kaiwhakarite taiopenga e taea ai te rekoata i tō toronga. Me whai huarahi nui atu i te kotahi mō te pūrongo i te toronga o te tangata, inarā mō te hunga kāore e taea e rātou te matawai i ngā waehere QR. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā whare kawhe, ngā whare kai, ngā wāhi inu waipiro, ngā whare petipeti, ngā kōnehete, ngā whare kaumātua, ngā whare hauora (hāunga ngā tūroro), ngā kaikuti makawe, ngā whare kori, whare kanikani, whare pukapuka, kōti, tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, me ngā kaituku ratonga pāpori e whai wāhi taupaepae ana. Koinei ētahi momo rekoata i tō toronga: te pātai i te tangata kia matawai mā te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer te rekoata ā-ringa i ngā taipitopito a ō kiritaki, manuhiri hoki. te whakarato puka tuhi hei whakakī mā ngā kiritaki me ngā manuhiri ki ō rātou taipitopito, ā, ka rau ki tētahi pouaka kohi mā te whakamahi ō pūnaha puri rekoata, pēnei i te āheinga kāri miri, te whakarite tāpui rānei. Me haere tonu te mahi a ngā pakihi ki te whakaatu i te tohu waehere QR, ahakoa kāore e hiahiatia ana ki te kohi i ngā rekoata kiritaki. He mōhiohio whaiaro ngā rekaota whakapā. Me haumaru te kohi, te whakamahi, te puri, te whāki, ā, me te porowhiu i runga anō i ngā tikanga o te Privacy Act 2020. He nui ake pea ngā hiahia haumaru o ngā pūnaha rekoata rerekē. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā mōhiohio e pā ana ki te puri rekoata me te whaiwhai i te pātanga mā ngā pakihi Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā Pae Mataara katoa Ina pā he ohotata, whāia ngā aratohu ohotata whānui, tohutohu rānei mai i ngā mana ohotata. Ko tō haumarutanga te mea nui. Kia haumaru koe, whāia ngā whakatūpato ki te ārai i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i te tū tīrara, te mau ārai kanohi rānei. Mēnā he mōreareatanga ki tō oranga, kāinga rānei, me waea ki 111 ka tono i te Pirihimana, Whakaratonga Iwi, Waka Tūroro rānei. Rapu me aha koe i te wā o te ohotata --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Ngā Pāe Mataara | The Alert Levels Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, te rewharewha, te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 , ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kia mahara ake, kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. Mēnā he ohotata tōu, kia wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . Mō te Pae Mataara 4 me: noho koe ki te kāinga, atu i te koringa mōu ake me whai tapu tō miru. He mea nui te tiaki i ngā tāngata i tō miru 2 mita te tawhiti i ngā tāngata o miru kē atu i a koe e wehe atu ana i te kāinga ki te koringa mōu ake haere ki te papa tata ki a koe ki te kori haere ki te hokomaha tata ki a koe mahi, ako hoki mai i te kāinga. Ko ētahi kaimahi anake e āhei ana ki te haere ki te mahi, engari he taumaha ngā here i runga i tēnei. mau ārai kanohi i ngā waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui, i ngā wāhi wehenga, i ngā rerenga, i roto tēkehi, waka tiri rānei, i ngā whare hauora me ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana. E whakahaua ana kia mau hoki tētahi ina uaua kē te tū tīrara. auau te horoi, te whakamaroke hoki i ō ringaringa. He mea nui kia auau te whai i ngā tikanga akuaku noa, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te mare, te tihe rānei ki tō tuke, te whakapai hoki i ngā papa. whai i ngā wāhi i tae atu ai koe mā te taupānga Whaiwhai KOWHEORI o Aotearoa, mā te puka Whaiwhai KOWHEORI-19, mā te tuhituhi noa rānei. He āwhinatanga tēnei e wawe ai te whaiwhai pānga mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te huaketo me ngā tohu o te KOWHEORI-19 Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te whakamātautau Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te whaiwhai Hono Iarere Ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te Pae Mataara 4 mēnā he tāpuitanga tōu. E tuwhera tonu ana ngā whare kano ārai mate. Ka mahi tonu rātou i raro i ngā herenga o te Pae Mataara 4. E akiaki ana mātou i a koe kia whiwhi i te kano ārai mate kua oti kē te whakamahere. I te Pae Mataara 4, kua whakaturehia te mau maruhā: i runga waka tūmatanui me ngā wāhi wehenga, hei tauira, tūranga tereina pahi hoki i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā whare hauora i ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana, he pānga ā-kiritaki, pēnei i ngā hokomaha, kēmehi, me ngā toa penehīni. E akiakitia ana te mau maruhā i ngā wā e wehe atu ai koe i te kāinga. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi He whāiti ngā haerenga e āheitia ana i te Pae Mataara 4 i tua atu i ngā take e whakaaetia ana i raro nei. Mēnā e haere ana koe mō tētahi take e whakaaetia ana, kāore e hiahiatia ana tētahi atu momo whakaaetanga ki te hāereere. Engari me mau haere tonu koe i tētahi taunakitanga o tō take hāereere. Mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 āu, i tata koe ki tētahi i whakamātauria e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, ko koe rānei i whakamātauria e pāngia ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, kaua e hāereere - ahakoa e whakaaetia ana - ā, me noho taratahi, ka waea atu ki te Healthline mō ētahi tohutohu, ā, kia whakamātauria. Mēnā e raru ana koe i te whai moni, i te kai, kua raru ā-hinengaro, ā-tinana rānei, tērā he āwhinatanga hei whai māu. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i te tangata takitahi Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i ngā pakihi --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, te rewharewha, te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 , ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kia mahara ake, kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. Mēnā he ohotata tōu, kia wawe tonu te waea atu ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- Mō te Pae Mataara 4 me: noho koe ki te kāinga, atu i te koringa mōu ake me whai tapu tō miru. He mea nui te tiaki i ngā tāngata i tō miru 2 mita te tawhiti i ngā tāngata o miru kē atu i a koe e wehe atu ana i te kāinga ki te koringa mōu ake haere ki te papa tata ki a koe ki te kori haere ki te hokomaha tata ki a koe mahi, ako hoki mai i te kāinga. Ko ētahi kaimahi anake e āhei ana ki te haere ki te mahi, engari he taumaha ngā here i runga i tēnei. mau ārai kanohi i ngā waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui, i ngā wāhi wehenga, i ngā rerenga, i roto tēkehi, waka tiri rānei, i ngā whare hauora me ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana. E whakahaua ana kia mau hoki tētahi ina uaua kē te tū tīrara. auau te horoi, te whakamaroke hoki i ō ringaringa. He mea nui kia auau te whai i ngā tikanga akuaku noa, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te mare, te tihe rānei ki tō tuke, te whakapai hoki i ngā papa. whai i ngā wāhi i tae atu ai koe mā te taupānga Whaiwhai KOWHEORI o Aotearoa, mā te puka Whaiwhai KOWHEORI-19, mā te tuhituhi noa rānei. He āwhinatanga tēnei e wawe ai te whaiwhai pānga mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te huaketo me ngā tohu o te KOWHEORI-19 Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te whakamātautau Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te whaiwhai Hono Iarere Ka taea tonu e koe te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te Pae Mataara 4 mēnā he tāpuitanga tōu. E tuwhera tonu ana ngā whare kano ārai mate. Ka mahi tonu rātou i raro i ngā herenga o te Pae Mataara 4. E akiaki ana mātou i a koe kia whiwhi i te kano ārai mate kua oti kē te whakamahere. I te Pae Mataara 4, kua whakaturehia te mau maruhā: i runga waka tūmatanui me ngā wāhi wehenga, hei tauira, tūranga tereina pahi hoki i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā whare hauora i ngā pakihi e tuwhera tonu ana, he pānga ā-kiritaki, pēnei i ngā hokomaha, kēmehi, me ngā toa penehīni. E akiakitia ana te mau maruhā i ngā wā e wehe atu ai koe i te kāinga. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi --- Section Separator --- He whāiti ngā haerenga e āheitia ana i te Pae Mataara 4 i tua atu i ngā take e whakaaetia ana i raro nei. Mēnā e haere ana koe mō tētahi take e whakaaetia ana, kāore e hiahiatia ana tētahi atu momo whakaaetanga ki te hāereere. Engari me mau haere tonu koe i tētahi taunakitanga o tō take hāereere. Mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 āu, i tata koe ki tētahi i whakamātauria e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, ko koe rānei i whakamātauria e pāngia ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, kaua e hāereere - ahakoa e whakaaetia ana - ā, me noho taratahi, ka waea atu ki te Healthline mō ētahi tohutohu, ā, kia whakamātauria. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā e raru ana koe i te whai moni, i te kai, kua raru ā-hinengaro, ā-tinana rānei, tērā he āwhinatanga hei whai māu. Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i te tangata takitahi Pāwhiri ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i ngā pakihi --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate | After your immunisation --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Koinei tā te tinana urupare māori atu, ā, he tohu tēnei kei te whaihua te kano ārai mate. I te nuinga o te wā, he māmā noa iho te pānga, ka mutu kāore e roa taua pānga, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka nui ake pea ngā uruparenga i muri i te kainga tuarua o te rongoā ārai mate. Ka pāngia pea e ngā uruparenga kino rawa, engari, ruarua noa iho ngā wā e pēnei ana. Kua whakangungua ngā kaituku rongoā ārai mate ki te whakatikatika, te āwhina hoki ina pāngia te tangata e ēnei āhuatanga. Nā ngā uruparenga ka pāngia pea mō te wā poto tō āhei ki te taraiwa, te whakamahi rānei i ngā pūrere. Ki te puta tēnei āhuatanga, tēnā, kōrero ki tō kaitukumahi. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e whai pānga ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, pērā ki te maremare mutunga kore, he kirikā, he rerekē, ka ngaro rānei tō rongo ā-waha, ā-ihu rānei, me noho koe ki te kāinga ka whakamātauria ki te whakamātau KOWHEORI-19. Ki te raru pokanoa koe ki te wero KOWHEORI-19, me tuku pūrongo tō kaiwero ārai mate, mātanga hauora rānei ki te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). E taea ai hoki te whakapūrongo i ngā uruparenga pokanoa ki tō rātou puka pūrongo ā-ipurangi kei runga i te paetukutuku o CARM otago.ac.nz/carm (external link) . Mehemea kāore koe i te tino mōhio he aha te tikanga o ngā tohumate, ki te kaha ake rānei, me kōrero ki tō Tākuta, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mehemea kei te āwangawanga koe ki tō haumarutanga, waea atu ki 111 me te maumahara ki te kī atu kua whiwhi koe i tō wero ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai i a koe. He mea tiaki hoki te rongoā ārai mate i te tangata katoa ahakoa te pakeke ki ngā mate mau noa hoki, pērā ki te karawaka me te rewharewha. Tirohia kua whiwhi katoa koutou ko tō whānau i ngā wero ārai mate mā te kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Me haere ki health.govt.nz/immunisation (external link) mō ētahi atu kōrero. Me tatari mō te rua wiki rawa i muri i tō kainga tuarua o te wero KOWHEORI-19 i mua i ētahi atu wero ārai mate. --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Koinei tā te tinana urupare māori atu, ā, he tohu tēnei kei te whaihua te kano ārai mate. I te nuinga o te wā, he māmā noa iho te pānga, ka mutu kāore e roa taua pānga, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka nui ake pea ngā uruparenga i muri i te kainga tuarua o te rongoā ārai mate. Ka pāngia pea e ngā uruparenga kino rawa, engari, ruarua noa iho ngā wā e pēnei ana. Kua whakangungua ngā kaituku rongoā ārai mate ki te whakatikatika, te āwhina hoki ina pāngia te tangata e ēnei āhuatanga. Nā ngā uruparenga ka pāngia pea mō te wā poto tō āhei ki te taraiwa, te whakamahi rānei i ngā pūrere. Ki te puta tēnei āhuatanga, tēnā, kōrero ki tō kaitukumahi. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e whai pānga ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, pērā ki te maremare mutunga kore, he kirikā, he rerekē, ka ngaro rānei tō rongo ā-waha, ā-ihu rānei, me noho koe ki te kāinga ka whakamātauria ki te whakamātau KOWHEORI-19. Ki te raru pokanoa koe ki te wero KOWHEORI-19, me tuku pūrongo tō kaiwero ārai mate, mātanga hauora rānei ki te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). E taea ai hoki te whakapūrongo i ngā uruparenga pokanoa ki tō rātou puka pūrongo ā-ipurangi kei runga i te paetukutuku o CARM otago.ac.nz/carm (external link) . Mehemea kāore koe i te tino mōhio he aha te tikanga o ngā tohumate, ki te kaha ake rānei, me kōrero ki tō Tākuta, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mehemea kei te āwangawanga koe ki tō haumarutanga, waea atu ki 111 me te maumahara ki te kī atu kua whiwhi koe i tō wero ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai i a koe. He mea tiaki hoki te rongoā ārai mate i te tangata katoa ahakoa te pakeke ki ngā mate mau noa hoki, pērā ki te karawaka me te rewharewha. Tirohia kua whiwhi katoa koutou ko tō whānau i ngā wero ārai mate mā te kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Me haere ki health.govt.nz/immunisation (external link) mō ētahi atu kōrero. Me tatari mō te rua wiki rawa i muri i tō kainga tuarua o te wero KOWHEORI-19 i mua i ētahi atu wero ārai mate. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te tono mō te werohanga wawe KOWHEORI-19 | Applying for an early vaccination --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Rapu me aha koe ina hiahia tono koe mō tētahi werohanga wawe kia pai ai te haere ki tāwāhi i runga i ngā take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei. Kāore e taea e koe te tono mō te werohanga wawe mō ētahi atu take. Rapu āhea taea ai e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Ka taea e koe te tono mō te werohanga wawe i runga i ngā take ngākau aroha mēnā ka hiahia koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi ki: te whakauru atu ki te tiakanga hauora nui kāore e wātea ana i Aotearoa, mōu, mō tētahi uri rānei (hei tauira, tō tamaiti) te toro atu ki tētahi mema o te whānau kua tata mate te whakarato i te tiakanga nui me te āraitanga mō tētahi uri. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tāwāhi i mua i te 31 o Hereturikōkā, ka taea e koe te tono tuihono mō tētahi kano ārai mate wawe mā te paetukutuku Manatū Hauora. Ākene pea ka māraurau koe mō tētahi kano ārai mate wawe mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi ki: te ārai i te haumarutanga o te motika o Aotearoa ki te tū hei kāwanatanga mōna anō te uru atu ki ngā mahi atawhai tangata kua whakaaetia e te Kāwanatanga hei wāhanga o ngā pūmautanga o Aotearoa ki te tuku āwhinatanga take tāwāhi, ngā urupare aitūa ā-ao, te tautoko rānei i ngā iwi o Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa ki te whakaora mai i te urutā KOWHEORI-19 te uru atu ki ngā taiopenga nui o te ao, e matea ai te hāereere hei kanoni mō Aotearoa te uru atu ki ngā whiriwhiri kōrero tauhokohoko nui ā-motu. Me tono rawa te tari hāngai, rōpū rānei mōu. Nga tono mō te kano ārai mate wawe (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Rapu me aha koe ina hiahia tono koe mō tētahi werohanga wawe kia pai ai te haere ki tāwāhi i runga i ngā take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei. Kāore e taea e koe te tono mō te werohanga wawe mō ētahi atu take. Rapu āhea taea ai e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Ka taea e koe te tono mō te werohanga wawe i runga i ngā take ngākau aroha mēnā ka hiahia koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi ki: te whakauru atu ki te tiakanga hauora nui kāore e wātea ana i Aotearoa, mōu, mō tētahi uri rānei (hei tauira, tō tamaiti) te toro atu ki tētahi mema o te whānau kua tata mate te whakarato i te tiakanga nui me te āraitanga mō tētahi uri. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tāwāhi i mua i te 31 o Hereturikōkā, ka taea e koe te tono tuihono mō tētahi kano ārai mate wawe mā te paetukutuku Manatū Hauora. Ākene pea ka māraurau koe mō tētahi kano ārai mate wawe mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi ki: te ārai i te haumarutanga o te motika o Aotearoa ki te tū hei kāwanatanga mōna anō te uru atu ki ngā mahi atawhai tangata kua whakaaetia e te Kāwanatanga hei wāhanga o ngā pūmautanga o Aotearoa ki te tuku āwhinatanga take tāwāhi, ngā urupare aitūa ā-ao, te tautoko rānei i ngā iwi o Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa ki te whakaora mai i te urutā KOWHEORI-19 te uru atu ki ngā taiopenga nui o te ao, e matea ai te hāereere hei kanoni mō Aotearoa te uru atu ki ngā whiriwhiri kōrero tauhokohoko nui ā-motu. Me tono rawa te tari hāngai, rōpū rānei mōu. Nga tono mō te kano ārai mate wawe (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te tāpui i tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 | Booking your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko te huarahi tere rawa o te whakarite i ō toronga kano ārai mate, ko te tāpui ā-tuihono mā Book My Vaccine (external link) . Mēnā kāore anō koe kia māraurau ki te tāpui, ka taea e koe te rēhita kia pai ai tā mātou whakamōhio atu i a koe i te wā tika mōu ki te tāpui. Ka āhua 5 mineti pea te roa o te tāpui ā-tuihono. Mēnā ka pā ētahi raruraru tāpui, e hiahia ana rānei koe ki te panoni i ō taipitopito, ka taea e koe te īmēra mai ki te rōpū o Book My Vaccine. Īmēra: booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz Book My Vaccine (external link) Ka taea e koe te tāpui mā te waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Me tatari pea koe i mua i te whakaututanga o tō waea, i te mea ka pokea ngā waea — kia manawanui mai. Kia whakautua tō waea, ka āhua 15 mineti ka pau ki te tāpui i ō toronga. Kia waea mai koe, he pai tonu mēnā e rite ana tō tau NHI (Taupū Hauora ā-Motu). Mā tēnei e tere ake ai te tukanga tāpui. Ka kitea tō tau NHI i runga i tētahi whakahau rongoā, tētahi hua whakamātau, whakaahua hihi-x, tētahi reta rānei mai i te hōhipera. Whakahaeretia ō toronga mā Book My Vaccine (external link) Waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, me whakarite toronga anō. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia ora mai koe. Mēnā he tohumate āu o te KOWHEORI-19, haere kia whakamātautauria, ā, noho ki te kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō i ō hua. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia puta rā anō te whakamātautau e kī ana kāore koe i te pāngia ki te mate. I tua atu i te tāpui toronga, tērā ētahi atu huarahi e whiwhi ai te tangata i ngā kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate i te wāhi mahi me ētahi atu kaupapa kano ārai mate motuhake puta noa i te motu. Mō ētahi hapori tuawhenua mamao, ka tuku mātou i ngā kano ārai mate ki ngā reanga katoa i te wā kotahi kia māmā ake ai mō rātou. He nui hoki ngā tākuta e whakarato ana i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ā, whakarite tōtika ana i ngā tāpuitanga. Kia mōhio ai mēnā e tuku ana tō tākuta i tēnei ratonga, haere ki Healthpoint. Kano ārai mate COVID-19 — Healthpoint (external link) Ka taea pea e koe te tono mō te werohanga kano ārai mate wawe mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi mō tētahi take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei. Te tono mō te whiwhinga kano ārai mate wawe mō ngā haerenga ki tāwāhi — Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Kua whakaturehia ināianei me whiwhi ngā kaimahi i ngā ripa whenua me ngā whare whakamohoao, whakataratahi hoki (MIQ) i te kano hei ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā mātou e whakaū ō taipitopito whakapā mā ā mātou pūkete me tō kaitukumahi, ka whakapā atu ki a koe mō te tāpuitanga i ō toronga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Me mau hoki ō taipitopito ki te Rēhita Whakamātautau Hungamahi Ripa Whenua (BWTR). Tēnā pātai ki tō kaitukumahi ki te hihira mēnā e tika ana te whakaurunga o tō ingoa me ō taipitopito (tae atu ki tō rā whānau, nama waea me te tau NHI) ki te BWTR. Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ rānei koe, ā, kāore anō kia whakapā atu tētahi ki a koe mō te tāpui i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate, kōrero ki tō kaituku mahi. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate mā ngā kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ hoki --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te huarahi tere rawa o te whakarite i ō toronga kano ārai mate, ko te tāpui ā-tuihono mā Book My Vaccine (external link) . Mēnā kāore anō koe kia māraurau ki te tāpui, ka taea e koe te rēhita kia pai ai tā mātou whakamōhio atu i a koe i te wā tika mōu ki te tāpui. Ka āhua 5 mineti pea te roa o te tāpui ā-tuihono. Mēnā ka pā ētahi raruraru tāpui, e hiahia ana rānei koe ki te panoni i ō taipitopito, ka taea e koe te īmēra mai ki te rōpū o Book My Vaccine. Īmēra: booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz Book My Vaccine (external link) Ka taea e koe te tāpui mā te waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Me tatari pea koe i mua i te whakaututanga o tō waea, i te mea ka pokea ngā waea — kia manawanui mai. Kia whakautua tō waea, ka āhua 15 mineti ka pau ki te tāpui i ō toronga. Kia waea mai koe, he pai tonu mēnā e rite ana tō tau NHI (Taupū Hauora ā-Motu). Mā tēnei e tere ake ai te tukanga tāpui. Ka kitea tō tau NHI i runga i tētahi whakahau rongoā, tētahi hua whakamātau, whakaahua hihi-x, tētahi reta rānei mai i te hōhipera. Whakahaeretia ō toronga mā Book My Vaccine (external link) Waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, me whakarite toronga anō. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia ora mai koe. Mēnā he tohumate āu o te KOWHEORI-19, haere kia whakamātautauria, ā, noho ki te kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō i ō hua. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia puta rā anō te whakamātautau e kī ana kāore koe i te pāngia ki te mate. I tua atu i te tāpui toronga, tērā ētahi atu huarahi e whiwhi ai te tangata i ngā kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate i te wāhi mahi me ētahi atu kaupapa kano ārai mate motuhake puta noa i te motu. Mō ētahi hapori tuawhenua mamao, ka tuku mātou i ngā kano ārai mate ki ngā reanga katoa i te wā kotahi kia māmā ake ai mō rātou. He nui hoki ngā tākuta e whakarato ana i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ā, whakarite tōtika ana i ngā tāpuitanga. Kia mōhio ai mēnā e tuku ana tō tākuta i tēnei ratonga, haere ki Healthpoint. Kano ārai mate COVID-19 — Healthpoint (external link) Ka taea pea e koe te tono mō te werohanga kano ārai mate wawe mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi mō tētahi take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei. Te tono mō te whiwhinga kano ārai mate wawe mō ngā haerenga ki tāwāhi — Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Kua whakaturehia ināianei me whiwhi ngā kaimahi i ngā ripa whenua me ngā whare whakamohoao, whakataratahi hoki (MIQ) i te kano hei ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā mātou e whakaū ō taipitopito whakapā mā ā mātou pūkete me tō kaitukumahi, ka whakapā atu ki a koe mō te tāpuitanga i ō toronga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Me mau hoki ō taipitopito ki te Rēhita Whakamātautau Hungamahi Ripa Whenua (BWTR). Tēnā pātai ki tō kaitukumahi ki te hihira mēnā e tika ana te whakaurunga o tō ingoa me ō taipitopito (tae atu ki tō rā whānau, nama waea me te tau NHI) ki te BWTR. Mēnā he kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ rānei koe, ā, kāore anō kia whakapā atu tētahi ki a koe mō te tāpui i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate, kōrero ki tō kaituku mahi. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate mā ngā kaimahi ripa whenua, MIQ hoki --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko ngā kano ārai mate tētahi huarahi e ārai ai tātou i te mate urutā o KOWHEORI-19, hei tiaki hoki i te oranga o ō tātou hapori. Kāore he utu o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka tiaki ngā kano ārai mate i tō hauora, ā, ka ārai atu i te mate mā te mahi tahi me ngā wāhanga papare o tō tinana e kaha ai koe ki te ārai atu i te wheori, mehemea ka noho mōrearea koe. Ka whaihua te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mā te whakaoho i tō pūnaha awhikiri e hua mai ai ngā paturopi, ngā pūtau toto hoki e whai nei ki te ārai i te wheori o KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 tētahi mahi hei whāinga māu e ārai ai koe i a koe anō i ngā pānga o te wheori. Heoi anō, kāore mātou i te mōhio mēnā ka riro mā tēnei e mutu ai tō pāngia rānei e te wheori, tō whakapā atu rānei i te wheori ki tangata kē. Kia uru ki a koe te kano ārai mate, me tūpato tonu hei aukati wawe i te horapa haeretanga o KOWHEORI-19. Me āta horoi, me āta whakamaroke hoki ō ringaringa. Me maremare, me matihe hoki ki tō tuke, ā, me noho ki te kāinga mehemea ka māuiui koe. Mā tēnei koe e āwhina ki te tiaki i a koe anō, i tō whānau, i ētahi atu hoki. Me whakamahi tonu i te taupānga whakatewhatewha mō KOWHEORI, whakakāngia te wāhanga o te Hono Iarere o tō waea, ā, tērā pea ka hiahia koe ki te mau i tō tākai mata, i tō ārai mata rānei. Whakaae noa ai a Medsafe kia whakamahia te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa i te wā e whakaae ana rātou kua eke ki te taumata o te haumaru, o te whaihua hoki e tika ana kia whakamahia. Kotahi tonu te whakamātautau haumaru me whai e ngā kano ārai mate katoa e pā ana ki a KOWHEORI- 19, ka mutu me eke te katoa ki ōna paerewa ruarangi e ōrite ana. Kāore koe e pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 mā tēnei kano ārai mate. Me rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga, kia āhua toru wiki te roa i waenga i ngā mea e rua. E eke ai te tiakanga ōu ki te taumata, me whai koe kia rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga ōu ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore koe e tae atu i te wā kua whakaritea, me wawe tonu tō whakarite i tētahi atu wā. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te pāwera kino rawa atu, mēnā rānei i tere tonu te pāngia ōu e te pāwera nā te kano ārai mate, nā te werohanga rānei i mua, tēnā kōrerotia tēnei ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki te rongoā whakawaiwai toto, mēnā rānei e pāngia ana koe e te mate ā-toto, whakamōhiotia te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e hapū ana koe, e whāngai pēpē ana rānei koe ki te ū, tēnā kōrero atu ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate, ki tō tākuta rānei, ki tō tapuhi whakawhānau rānei. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki ngā rongoā mō te mate pukupuku, arā, ki a Keytruda rānei, ki a Opdivo rānei, ki a Yervoy rānei, ki a Tecentriq rānei, kōrero ki tō mātanga e mōhio ai koe mēnā me whāngai koe ki te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā, kāore mātou i te whakawātea i te kano ārai mate a Pfizer ki te hunga e tamariki ake ana i te 12 tau te pakeke kia wātea mai he raraunga atu anō. Mēnā e rongo ana koe i ngā tohumate o KOWHEORI-19, whāia kia whakamātauhia koe, ā, e noho ki te kāinga tae noa ki te wā ka whiwhi koe i ngā hua mōu. E whakaaetia ana kia whāngaia koe ki te kano ārai mate ā te wā tonu e kī ana ngā hua o tō whakamātautau kāore koe e pāngia ana . Me tatari kia pau te 20 meneti i muri i te whāngaia ōu ki te kano ārai mate kia kite ai ngā kaimahi hauora kāore e pērā rawa ana te kino o te pāngia ōu e te pāwera. Ko te kōrero nui katoa ka puta mō ngā tauhohenga, ko te mamae o te wāhi i werohia ai, ko te ānini o te māhunga, ko te rongo rānei i te ngenge, i te ruha rānei. Tērā pea ka rangona hoki te mamae o ngā uaua, te māuiui noa iho nei, te hūwiniwini, te kirikā, te mamae o ngā ponapona me te whakapai ruaki. He tohu tēnei e whaihua ana te kano ārai mate. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Ko aua mate rā ka kitea nuitia ana, ka māmā noa iho i te nuinga o te wā, ka mutu kāore e roa ana te mate, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka pā pea ētahi mate āpiti ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. He wā ōna ka puta ētahi mate pāwera kino nei, engari me uaua ka kitea. Kua whakangungua ā mātou kaiwhāngai i te tangata ki te kano ārai mate kia whakahaerehia ēnei āhuatanga. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te maremare hou e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, whakaritea hoki kia whakamātautauria tō tinana mō KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kāore koe i te mōhio ki te āhua o ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waeahia te Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ka āta kī atu ai ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. www.health.govt.nz/covid-vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko ngā kano ārai mate tētahi huarahi e ārai ai tātou i te mate urutā o KOWHEORI-19, hei tiaki hoki i te oranga o ō tātou hapori. Kāore he utu o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka tiaki ngā kano ārai mate i tō hauora, ā, ka ārai atu i te mate mā te mahi tahi me ngā wāhanga papare o tō tinana e kaha ai koe ki te ārai atu i te wheori, mehemea ka noho mōrearea koe. Ka whaihua te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mā te whakaoho i tō pūnaha awhikiri e hua mai ai ngā paturopi, ngā pūtau toto hoki e whai nei ki te ārai i te wheori o KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 tētahi mahi hei whāinga māu e ārai ai koe i a koe anō i ngā pānga o te wheori. Heoi anō, kāore mātou i te mōhio mēnā ka riro mā tēnei e mutu ai tō pāngia rānei e te wheori, tō whakapā atu rānei i te wheori ki tangata kē. Kia uru ki a koe te kano ārai mate, me tūpato tonu hei aukati wawe i te horapa haeretanga o KOWHEORI-19. Me āta horoi, me āta whakamaroke hoki ō ringaringa. Me maremare, me matihe hoki ki tō tuke, ā, me noho ki te kāinga mehemea ka māuiui koe. Mā tēnei koe e āwhina ki te tiaki i a koe anō, i tō whānau, i ētahi atu hoki. Me whakamahi tonu i te taupānga whakatewhatewha mō KOWHEORI, whakakāngia te wāhanga o te Hono Iarere o tō waea, ā, tērā pea ka hiahia koe ki te mau i tō tākai mata, i tō ārai mata rānei. Whakaae noa ai a Medsafe kia whakamahia te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa i te wā e whakaae ana rātou kua eke ki te taumata o te haumaru, o te whaihua hoki e tika ana kia whakamahia. Kotahi tonu te whakamātautau haumaru me whai e ngā kano ārai mate katoa e pā ana ki a KOWHEORI- 19, ka mutu me eke te katoa ki ōna paerewa ruarangi e ōrite ana. Kāore koe e pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 mā tēnei kano ārai mate. Me rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga, kia āhua toru wiki te roa i waenga i ngā mea e rua. E eke ai te tiakanga ōu ki te taumata, me whai koe kia rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga ōu ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore koe e tae atu i te wā kua whakaritea, me wawe tonu tō whakarite i tētahi atu wā. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te pāwera kino rawa atu, mēnā rānei i tere tonu te pāngia ōu e te pāwera nā te kano ārai mate, nā te werohanga rānei i mua, tēnā kōrerotia tēnei ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki te rongoā whakawaiwai toto, mēnā rānei e pāngia ana koe e te mate ā-toto, whakamōhiotia te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e hapū ana koe, e whāngai pēpē ana rānei koe ki te ū, tēnā kōrero atu ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate, ki tō tākuta rānei, ki tō tapuhi whakawhānau rānei. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki ngā rongoā mō te mate pukupuku, arā, ki a Keytruda rānei, ki a Opdivo rānei, ki a Yervoy rānei, ki a Tecentriq rānei, kōrero ki tō mātanga e mōhio ai koe mēnā me whāngai koe ki te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā, kāore mātou i te whakawātea i te kano ārai mate a Pfizer ki te hunga e tamariki ake ana i te 12 tau te pakeke kia wātea mai he raraunga atu anō. Mēnā e rongo ana koe i ngā tohumate o KOWHEORI-19, whāia kia whakamātauhia koe, ā, e noho ki te kāinga tae noa ki te wā ka whiwhi koe i ngā hua mōu. E whakaaetia ana kia whāngaia koe ki te kano ārai mate ā te wā tonu e kī ana ngā hua o tō whakamātautau kāore koe e pāngia ana . Me tatari kia pau te 20 meneti i muri i te whāngaia ōu ki te kano ārai mate kia kite ai ngā kaimahi hauora kāore e pērā rawa ana te kino o te pāngia ōu e te pāwera. Ko te kōrero nui katoa ka puta mō ngā tauhohenga, ko te mamae o te wāhi i werohia ai, ko te ānini o te māhunga, ko te rongo rānei i te ngenge, i te ruha rānei. Tērā pea ka rangona hoki te mamae o ngā uaua, te māuiui noa iho nei, te hūwiniwini, te kirikā, te mamae o ngā ponapona me te whakapai ruaki. He tohu tēnei e whaihua ana te kano ārai mate. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Ko aua mate rā ka kitea nuitia ana, ka māmā noa iho i te nuinga o te wā, ka mutu kāore e roa ana te mate, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka pā pea ētahi mate āpiti ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. He wā ōna ka puta ētahi mate pāwera kino nei, engari me uaua ka kitea. Kua whakangungua ā mātou kaiwhāngai i te tangata ki te kano ārai mate kia whakahaerehia ēnei āhuatanga. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te maremare hou e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, whakaritea hoki kia whakamātautauria tō tinana mō KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kāore koe i te mōhio ki te āhua o ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waeahia te Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ka āta kī atu ai ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. www.health.govt.nz/covid-vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te werohanga kano ārai mate me tō mahi | Vaccination and your job --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko te nuinga o ngā mahi i Aotearoa i te wā nei ka taea e ngā tāngata kāore anō i whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapu ka aha mēnā ko te mahi e mahi ana koe, me oti i tētahi kaimahi kua whiwhi kano ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Kāore e taea e tō kaitukumahi te tuku mōhiohio mō tō tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate ki tētahi atu, māna kua whakaae koe kia pērā, māna rānei he okotahi kei raro i te Ture Matatapu. Ehara i te mea me whāki koe ki tō kaitukumahi kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate. Ina whakatau koe kia kaua e werohia ki te kano ārai mate, ehara i te mea me whāki koe he aha ai. Mēnā kei roto koe i tētahi tūranga mahi me oti i tētahi kaimahi kua werohia e te kano ārai mate, engari kāore tonu koe i te hiahia whāki i tō tūnga werohanga kano, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te kī he whiwhinga-kore koe i te kano, engari me kōrero ia ki a koe e pērā ana ia. Mēnā e whakaaro ana tō kaituku mahi tērā ētahi mahi hei mahi mā ngā kaimahi whai kano ārai mate anake, i runga anō i ngā take hauora me te haumaru, me whakahaere ia i tētahi aromatawai mōrearea mō te whakaraerae KOWHEORI-19. Ko tēnei aromatawai me oti i te taha o ngā kaimahi, ngā uniana me ētahi atu māngai. Me whai whakaaro te aromatawai morearea: ki te tūponotanga whakaraerae o ngā kaimahi ki te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e mahi ana i taua mahi ngā tūpono pānga o tērā - hei tauira, te rere ā-hapori. He aratohu āmiki atu tā WorkSafe mō ngā aromatawai mōrearea. Te aromatawai mēnā e tika ana kia mahia taua mahi motuhake e tētahi kaimahi whai kano ārai mate. (external link) Ka hāngai tonu ngā takohanga ture mahi o nāianei. Arā: te whakarerekē i ngā tikanga me ngā here o te mahi mā te whakaaetanga te whakawhitiwhiti whakaaro i runga i te pono te karo i te whakahāweatanga takahi ture o ngā kaimahi i runga i te tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate te kore e whai i ngā mahi ka tūpono whakararu tikakore i ngā kaimahi i runga i te āhua o te tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate. Ahakoa ehara te kano ārai mate i te āhuatanga whakature, ā, kei te tangata tonu te tikanga ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ko ngā mahi katoa e kawea ana i ngā taiao MIQ, rohe whenua mōrearea teitei rānei, me oti i te hunga kua werohia ki te kano ārai i te mate KOWHEORI--19. Ka uru ngā kaimahi kāwanatanga i ngā taunga rererangi ā-ao, ngā wāpu me ngā rererangi. Tērā ētahi okotahi ki tēnei. Hei tauira, ka taea e te tangata kore kano ārai mate te uru atu me te mahi i ngā wā me ngā wāhi hei whakaora, hei tiaki rānei i te oranga o te tangata, te hauora me te haumaru i te wā o te ohotata; mēnā rānei e whakamanahia ana i raro i te ture. Ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate mā ngā kaimahi i ngā taiao rohe whenua mōrearea teitei Mēnā kaore kōrua ko tō kaituku mahi i te whakaae tahi mō te āhuatanga o ngā mahi hei whakaoti mā te kaimahi kua whai kano ārai mate anake, ka āhei koe ki te toro atu ki te Ratonga Whakatau Wawe. E tāpae ana i tētahi tukanga kore utu, ōpaki hoki e whakamātau ana ki te whakatau i ngā take. Ratonga Whakatau Wawe (external link) Te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te mahi - Employment NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te nuinga o ngā mahi i Aotearoa i te wā nei ka taea e ngā tāngata kāore anō i whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapu ka aha mēnā ko te mahi e mahi ana koe, me oti i tētahi kaimahi kua whiwhi kano ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Kāore e taea e tō kaitukumahi te tuku mōhiohio mō tō tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate ki tētahi atu, māna kua whakaae koe kia pērā, māna rānei he okotahi kei raro i te Ture Matatapu. Ehara i te mea me whāki koe ki tō kaitukumahi kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate. Ina whakatau koe kia kaua e werohia ki te kano ārai mate, ehara i te mea me whāki koe he aha ai. Mēnā kei roto koe i tētahi tūranga mahi me oti i tētahi kaimahi kua werohia e te kano ārai mate, engari kāore tonu koe i te hiahia whāki i tō tūnga werohanga kano, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te kī he whiwhinga-kore koe i te kano, engari me kōrero ia ki a koe e pērā ana ia. Mēnā e whakaaro ana tō kaituku mahi tērā ētahi mahi hei mahi mā ngā kaimahi whai kano ārai mate anake, i runga anō i ngā take hauora me te haumaru, me whakahaere ia i tētahi aromatawai mōrearea mō te whakaraerae KOWHEORI-19. Ko tēnei aromatawai me oti i te taha o ngā kaimahi, ngā uniana me ētahi atu māngai. Me whai whakaaro te aromatawai morearea: ki te tūponotanga whakaraerae o ngā kaimahi ki te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e mahi ana i taua mahi ngā tūpono pānga o tērā - hei tauira, te rere ā-hapori. He aratohu āmiki atu tā WorkSafe mō ngā aromatawai mōrearea. Te aromatawai mēnā e tika ana kia mahia taua mahi motuhake e tētahi kaimahi whai kano ārai mate. (external link) Ka hāngai tonu ngā takohanga ture mahi o nāianei. Arā: te whakarerekē i ngā tikanga me ngā here o te mahi mā te whakaaetanga te whakawhitiwhiti whakaaro i runga i te pono te karo i te whakahāweatanga takahi ture o ngā kaimahi i runga i te tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate te kore e whai i ngā mahi ka tūpono whakararu tikakore i ngā kaimahi i runga i te āhua o te tūnga werohanga kano ārai mate. Ahakoa ehara te kano ārai mate i te āhuatanga whakature, ā, kei te tangata tonu te tikanga ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ko ngā mahi katoa e kawea ana i ngā taiao MIQ, rohe whenua mōrearea teitei rānei, me oti i te hunga kua werohia ki te kano ārai i te mate KOWHEORI--19. Ka uru ngā kaimahi kāwanatanga i ngā taunga rererangi ā-ao, ngā wāpu me ngā rererangi. Tērā ētahi okotahi ki tēnei. Hei tauira, ka taea e te tangata kore kano ārai mate te uru atu me te mahi i ngā wā me ngā wāhi hei whakaora, hei tiaki rānei i te oranga o te tangata, te hauora me te haumaru i te wā o te ohotata; mēnā rānei e whakamanahia ana i raro i te ture. Ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate mā ngā kaimahi i ngā taiao rohe whenua mōrearea teitei Mēnā kaore kōrua ko tō kaituku mahi i te whakaae tahi mō te āhuatanga o ngā mahi hei whakaoti mā te kaimahi kua whai kano ārai mate anake, ka āhei koe ki te toro atu ki te Ratonga Whakatau Wawe. E tāpae ana i tētahi tukanga kore utu, ōpaki hoki e whakamātau ana ki te whakatau i ngā take. Ratonga Whakatau Wawe (external link) Te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te mahi - Employment NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Ko wai e āhei ana ki tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? | Who can get a COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene, ā, ka tiakina tō matataputanga. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. I konei koe ka kite i ngā mōhiohio whaitake o te hunga e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate, tae atu ki ngā āhuatanga pēnei i tō pakeke, mēnā e hapū ana, e whāngote ana rānei, mēnā he pānga pāwera tāu ki te kano ārai mate i mua, mēnā rānei he tūmomo mate mauroa tāhau. E kore e taea e ngā tāngata i raro i te 12 tau te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i tēnei wā. Ko ngā whakaaturanga mai o te kano ārai mate, he tino whaihua, haumaru hoki mā ngā tāngata pakeke ake i te 65 tau. E pai ana mā te hunga kaimanga. Kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Kāore hoki he paturopi, he hua toto, he DNA, he pūmua, he matū kōpū, he kurutene, he hua poaka, he tāroki, he hoi, kāore rānei he latex (i hangaia mai te taupoki ipuipu i te rapa horihori - bromobutyl). Rapua te rārangi whakauru nui o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer (external link) Mēnā e hapū ana koe, ka taea e koe tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i ngā wāhanga hapūtanga katoa. E whakaatu ana ngā raraunga mai i te maha o ngā tāngata hapū kua whiwhi kē i te kano ārai mate i te ao, kāore he māharahara haumaru tāpiri o te tuku i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka whai hua pea te pēpi mai i te tuku kano ārai mate i te hapūtanga, i te mea he taunakitanga e whakaatu ana i te tukunga o te paturopi i te toto taura me te waiū, e tuku ana pea i te āraitanga ki ngā pēpi mā te awhikiri taupoto. Mēnā he pātai āu, māharahara rānei, kōrerotia ki tō mātanga hauora. Mēnā e whakaaro ana koe i tētahi hapūtanga ka taea tonu e koe te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore e pā kinotia ō ira, tō matahua rānei e te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore te mRNA mai i te kano ārai mate e kuhu ki te karihi o ngā ira, te wāhi o tō DNA. Kāore he wāhanga o te kano ārai mate, o te pūmua koikoi rānei ka hua mai, e tae ki te wharekano, ngā raho rānei. Mēnā i pā tētahi pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrerotia atu tēnei ki tō tākuta, mātanga hauora, kaituku kano rānei. Kaua e haere ki te tiki kano ārai mēnā he hītori tāu o te whai tauhohe pāwera tino taumaha: ki tētahi whakaurunga o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki tētahi werohanga o mua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer He aha kei roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, e aua atu te mate kirikā i te 38°C, me whakatārewa e koe tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia ora mai ai koe. Kāore e taea e koe te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e whiwhi ana koe i ētahi atu kano ārai mate. Me tatari mō tētahi wā, i runga anō i te āhua o te kano ārai mate. Tatari mō te 2 wiki i waenga i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te kano ārai mate rewharewha. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā wehenga o ēnei werohanga e rua. Ka taea e koe te kano ārai mate rewharewha atu i te 2 wiki i muri i tō werohanga tuarua. Mēnā kāore ō toronga whakarite mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, tīkina tō kano ārai mate rewharewha i te tuatahi. Ka taea e koe tō werohanga KOWHEORI-19 tuatahi i te 2 wiki i muri mai o tēnei. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā i waenga i ēnei werohanga e rua. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 2 wiki i muri o te werohanga tuarua, i mua o tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate MMR. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate MMR i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 4 wiki i mua i tō whiwhinga i te werohanga tuatahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. Ka taea e koe te āheinga wawe ki te kano ārai mate mēnā kei tua koe o te 16 tau, ā, ka ea i a koe tētahi, ētahi rānei o ngā paearu nei: He mate hauora tāu, ko te tikanga o tēnei mate e māraurau ana koe mō te kano ārai mate rewharewha ka utua e te kāwanatanga, tae atu ki te hunga e hapū ana. Kua kohuratia koe ki te mate hinengaro taumaha (tae atu ki te mate tuakoi, mate pāpouri nui, mate bipolar, mate huinga tohumate tuakoi maha rānei, me ngā pākeke e whiwhi ana i te hauora hinengaro tuarua, tuatoru rānei me ngā ratonga waranga). He ngoikore te whakahaeretanga o te pēhanga toto nui, he taumaha rānei te pēhanga toto nui. I tēnei āhuatanga, ko te whakamārama o te taumaha, me whiwhi i ngā rongoā whakahaere e rua, neke atu rānei. He tino mōmona koe (kua tautuhia hei BMI ≥40). Mō ētahi atu tohutohu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te wā e pāngia ana e ngā mate taumaha, e whiwhi maimoatanga ana, mātaitanga, kai rongoā rānei, tēnā haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Kupu tohutohu kano ārai mate mā ngā rōpū motuhake me ngā tūmate hauora - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene, ā, ka tiakina tō matataputanga. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. I konei koe ka kite i ngā mōhiohio whaitake o te hunga e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate, tae atu ki ngā āhuatanga pēnei i tō pakeke, mēnā e hapū ana, e whāngote ana rānei, mēnā he pānga pāwera tāu ki te kano ārai mate i mua, mēnā rānei he tūmomo mate mauroa tāhau. E kore e taea e ngā tāngata i raro i te 12 tau te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i tēnei wā. Ko ngā whakaaturanga mai o te kano ārai mate, he tino whaihua, haumaru hoki mā ngā tāngata pakeke ake i te 65 tau. E pai ana mā te hunga kaimanga. Kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Kāore hoki he paturopi, he hua toto, he DNA, he pūmua, he matū kōpū, he kurutene, he hua poaka, he tāroki, he hoi, kāore rānei he latex (i hangaia mai te taupoki ipuipu i te rapa horihori - bromobutyl). Rapua te rārangi whakauru nui o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer (external link) Mēnā e hapū ana koe, ka taea e koe tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i ngā wāhanga hapūtanga katoa. E whakaatu ana ngā raraunga mai i te maha o ngā tāngata hapū kua whiwhi kē i te kano ārai mate i te ao, kāore he māharahara haumaru tāpiri o te tuku i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka whai hua pea te pēpi mai i te tuku kano ārai mate i te hapūtanga, i te mea he taunakitanga e whakaatu ana i te tukunga o te paturopi i te toto taura me te waiū, e tuku ana pea i te āraitanga ki ngā pēpi mā te awhikiri taupoto. Mēnā he pātai āu, māharahara rānei, kōrerotia ki tō mātanga hauora. Mēnā e whakaaro ana koe i tētahi hapūtanga ka taea tonu e koe te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore e pā kinotia ō ira, tō matahua rānei e te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore te mRNA mai i te kano ārai mate e kuhu ki te karihi o ngā ira, te wāhi o tō DNA. Kāore he wāhanga o te kano ārai mate, o te pūmua koikoi rānei ka hua mai, e tae ki te wharekano, ngā raho rānei. Mēnā i pā tētahi pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrerotia atu tēnei ki tō tākuta, mātanga hauora, kaituku kano rānei. Kaua e haere ki te tiki kano ārai mēnā he hītori tāu o te whai tauhohe pāwera tino taumaha: ki tētahi whakaurunga o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki tētahi werohanga o mua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer He aha kei roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, e aua atu te mate kirikā i te 38°C, me whakatārewa e koe tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia ora mai ai koe. Kāore e taea e koe te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e whiwhi ana koe i ētahi atu kano ārai mate. Me tatari mō tētahi wā, i runga anō i te āhua o te kano ārai mate. Tatari mō te 2 wiki i waenga i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te kano ārai mate rewharewha. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā wehenga o ēnei werohanga e rua. Ka taea e koe te kano ārai mate rewharewha atu i te 2 wiki i muri i tō werohanga tuarua. Mēnā kāore ō toronga whakarite mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, tīkina tō kano ārai mate rewharewha i te tuatahi. Ka taea e koe tō werohanga KOWHEORI-19 tuatahi i te 2 wiki i muri mai o tēnei. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā i waenga i ēnei werohanga e rua. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 2 wiki i muri o te werohanga tuarua, i mua o tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate MMR. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate MMR i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 4 wiki i mua i tō whiwhinga i te werohanga tuatahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. Ka taea e koe te āheinga wawe ki te kano ārai mate mēnā kei tua koe o te 16 tau, ā, ka ea i a koe tētahi, ētahi rānei o ngā paearu nei: He mate hauora tāu, ko te tikanga o tēnei mate e māraurau ana koe mō te kano ārai mate rewharewha ka utua e te kāwanatanga, tae atu ki te hunga e hapū ana. Kua kohuratia koe ki te mate hinengaro taumaha (tae atu ki te mate tuakoi, mate pāpouri nui, mate bipolar, mate huinga tohumate tuakoi maha rānei, me ngā pākeke e whiwhi ana i te hauora hinengaro tuarua, tuatoru rānei me ngā ratonga waranga). He ngoikore te whakahaeretanga o te pēhanga toto nui, he taumaha rānei te pēhanga toto nui. I tēnei āhuatanga, ko te whakamārama o te taumaha, me whiwhi i ngā rongoā whakahaere e rua, neke atu rānei. He tino mōmona koe (kua tautuhia hei BMI ≥40). Mō ētahi atu tohutohu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te wā e pāngia ana e ngā mate taumaha, e whiwhi maimoatanga ana, mātaitanga, kai rongoā rānei, tēnā haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Kupu tohutohu kano ārai mate mā ngā rōpū motuhake me ngā tūmate hauora - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haumaru me te whanaketanga | Safety and development Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19: te whanaketanga, whakaaetanga me te haumarutanga | COVID-19 vaccines: development, approval and safety --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Kāore i pēnei rawa te nui o te mahi tahi ā-ao i waenganui i ngā kaipūtaiao me ngā kāwanatanga i te whanaketanga kano ārai mate. Nā tēnei i tere ake ai te whanaketanga o te kano ārai mate, ngā whakamātautau haumanu me ngā whakaaetanga puta noa i te ao. I tere tonu te whanaketanga o ngā kano ārai mate engari kāore i whāia ngā pokatata i ngā tukanga matea, te whakamōrea rānei i te haumarutanga. I taea e ngā kairangahau te whakamahi i ō rātou mōhiotanga o ētahi atu huaketo korona me te whanaketanga kano ārai mate e ahu whakamua ai rātou. I taea hoki e ngā whakamātautau haumanu te kimi wawe i ngā kaitūao huhua nā te aronga nui me te māharahara o te ao whānui ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ko ētahi whakamātautau haumanu ka taea te mahi ngātahi, kaua i te huarahi raupapa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, ka taea wawe e ngā kaipūtaiao te whakatau mēnā i whaihua te kano ārai mate i te wā poto - otirā i ngā āhuatanga auau, ka hia marama, tau rānei te roa o tēnei mahi. Kua tū ngā whare whakanao nui, e taea ai te hanga wawe i ngā kano ārai mate, ā, me te rahi ake hoki, otirā kāore i taea i mua Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka arotake ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Ka tuku whakaaetanga anake a Medsafe mō te whakamahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, kia tau rā anō ō rātou whakaaro mō te ekenga ki ngā paerewa kaha mō te haumaru, te kaha ārai whakapokenga me te kounga. He tukanga ōrite tēnei i whakamahia ki te aromatawai i ētahi atu rongoā, pērā i te kano ārai mate rewharewha. Kāore he pokatata i whāia i te tukunga o tēnei whakaaetanga. Kua whakamahia angituhia e te hia miriona tāngata huri noa i te ao te kano ārai mate Pfizer. E aroturukuhia tonutia ana mō te haumarutanga Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te tikanga o tēnā, kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Puta noa i ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i rangahautia te kano ārai mate Pfizer i runga i te 44,000 kaiwhakauru. Ko te huarua o te hunga nei i whiwhi i te kano ārai mate, ko tētahi atu haurua i whiwhi placebo mātaitai. Nō ngā mātāwaka whānui, ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira me ngā tūmomo mate whānui anō hoki ngā kaiwhakauru. E toru ngā wāhanga whakamātautau i kuhu atu ai te kano ārai mate Pfizer: Ko ngā wāhanga 1 me te 2 i aromatawai i te haumaru me te immunogenicity (te urupare awhikiri i muri o ia werohanga) o ngā taumata werohanga rerekē o te kano ārai mate i tētahi taupori iti. Ko nga wāhanga 2 me te 3 i aromatawai i te haumaru me te kaha ārai o te kano ārai mate ki te KOWHEORI-19 ā-tohumate, i muri i ngā werohanga e rua o te taumata i tohua, e 21 ngā rā i waenga i ngā werohanga, i tētahi taupori nui ake. E māramai ai ki te kaha ārai mau roa me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate, e haurapatia ana ngā kaiwhakauru o ēnei whakamātautau haumanu mō te 2 tau atu anō i muri mai i tō rātou werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Kāore i pēnei rawa te nui o te mahi tahi ā-ao i waenganui i ngā kaipūtaiao me ngā kāwanatanga i te whanaketanga kano ārai mate. Nā tēnei i tere ake ai te whanaketanga o te kano ārai mate, ngā whakamātautau haumanu me ngā whakaaetanga puta noa i te ao. I tere tonu te whanaketanga o ngā kano ārai mate engari kāore i whāia ngā pokatata i ngā tukanga matea, te whakamōrea rānei i te haumarutanga. I taea e ngā kairangahau te whakamahi i ō rātou mōhiotanga o ētahi atu huaketo korona me te whanaketanga kano ārai mate e ahu whakamua ai rātou. I taea hoki e ngā whakamātautau haumanu te kimi wawe i ngā kaitūao huhua nā te aronga nui me te māharahara o te ao whānui ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ko ētahi whakamātautau haumanu ka taea te mahi ngātahi, kaua i te huarahi raupapa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, ka taea wawe e ngā kaipūtaiao te whakatau mēnā i whaihua te kano ārai mate i te wā poto - otirā i ngā āhuatanga auau, ka hia marama, tau rānei te roa o tēnei mahi. Kua tū ngā whare whakanao nui, e taea ai te hanga wawe i ngā kano ārai mate, ā, me te rahi ake hoki, otirā kāore i taea i mua Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka arotake ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Ka tuku whakaaetanga anake a Medsafe mō te whakamahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, kia tau rā anō ō rātou whakaaro mō te ekenga ki ngā paerewa kaha mō te haumaru, te kaha ārai whakapokenga me te kounga. He tukanga ōrite tēnei i whakamahia ki te aromatawai i ētahi atu rongoā, pērā i te kano ārai mate rewharewha. Kāore he pokatata i whāia i te tukunga o tēnei whakaaetanga. Kua whakamahia angituhia e te hia miriona tāngata huri noa i te ao te kano ārai mate Pfizer. E aroturukuhia tonutia ana mō te haumarutanga Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te tikanga o tēnā, kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Puta noa i ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i rangahautia te kano ārai mate Pfizer i runga i te 44,000 kaiwhakauru. Ko te huarua o te hunga nei i whiwhi i te kano ārai mate, ko tētahi atu haurua i whiwhi placebo mātaitai. Nō ngā mātāwaka whānui, ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira me ngā tūmomo mate whānui anō hoki ngā kaiwhakauru. E toru ngā wāhanga whakamātautau i kuhu atu ai te kano ārai mate Pfizer: Ko ngā wāhanga 1 me te 2 i aromatawai i te haumaru me te immunogenicity (te urupare awhikiri i muri o ia werohanga) o ngā taumata werohanga rerekē o te kano ārai mate i tētahi taupori iti. Ko nga wāhanga 2 me te 3 i aromatawai i te haumaru me te kaha ārai o te kano ārai mate ki te KOWHEORI-19 ā-tohumate, i muri i ngā werohanga e rua o te taumata i tohua, e 21 ngā rā i waenga i ngā werohanga, i tētahi taupori nui ake. E māramai ai ki te kaha ārai mau roa me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate, e haurapatia ana ngā kaiwhakauru o ēnei whakamātautau haumanu mō te 2 tau atu anō i muri mai i tō rātou werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haumaru me te whanaketanga | Safety and development Pēhea te mahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 | How the COVID-19 vaccine works --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. I konei ka kitea e koe ngā kōrero nui mō te mahi o kano ārai mate. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer he kano ārai mate mRNA Kei roto ko te waehere ā-ira mō tētahi wāhanga nui o te huaketo SARS-CoV-2 (KOWHEORI-19) e kīia nei ko te 'pūmua koikoi'. Ko nga pūmua koikoi ngā tara iti i runga i te mata o te wheori. Kia whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate, ka pānuitia e tō tinana te waehere ā-ira, ā, ka tango kape o te pūmua koikoi. Ka kitea e tō pūnaha awhikiri ēnei pūmua koikoi, ā, ka ako ki te āhukahuka, me te whawhai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ka mōhio ia me pēhea te whakaeke i te huaketo hei ārai i te horapatanga ki tō tinana. Kātahi ka wāwāhitia te waehere ā-ira mai i te kano ārai mate, ka tere, ka māmā hoki te tangohia e tō tinana. Kāore ngā kano ārai mate mRNA e puri i te huaketo e tuku ana i te KOWHEORI-19, tētahi atu huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei. Kāore he painga, he tauwhitiwhiti ranei ki ō DNA, ki ō ira ranei. e kore e uru ngā kano ārai mate mRNA ki te puku o te pūtau, kei reira e mau ana ō tātau DNA. I whanaketia ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mā roto i ngā mahi ngātahitanga ā-ao nui. Kua rangahau, kua mahi hoki ngā kairangahau i ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mō ngā tau maha. Kei roto i tēnei ko ngā rangahau o ngā kano ārai mate rewharewha, Zika, rabies me te cytomegalovirus (CMV). Kua rangahaua hoki e ngā kaipūtaiao ngā pokenga mate korona i mua pēnei i te SARS me te MERS. Nō te tautuhitanga o ngā kaipūtaiao i te mate korona e puta ai te KOWHEORI-19, i tere tā rātou urutau i ngā hangarau mō te KOWHEORI-19. Ahakoa he hangarau āhua hou tēnei, i whāia tonutia ngā tikanga arowhai haumaru me ngā waehere. Kei roto hoki ko ngā whakamātautau haumanu ā-ao hei āwhina ki te whakaatu i te kaha ārai pokenga me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate.E whakamahia ana te kano ārai mate Pfizer puta noa i te ao, ā, e haere tonu ana, ngā mahi aroturuki tata mō tōna whaihuatanga me te haumarutanga. --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. I konei ka kitea e koe ngā kōrero nui mō te mahi o kano ārai mate. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer he kano ārai mate mRNA Kei roto ko te waehere ā-ira mō tētahi wāhanga nui o te huaketo SARS-CoV-2 (KOWHEORI-19) e kīia nei ko te 'pūmua koikoi'. Ko nga pūmua koikoi ngā tara iti i runga i te mata o te wheori. Kia whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate, ka pānuitia e tō tinana te waehere ā-ira, ā, ka tango kape o te pūmua koikoi. Ka kitea e tō pūnaha awhikiri ēnei pūmua koikoi, ā, ka ako ki te āhukahuka, me te whawhai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ka mōhio ia me pēhea te whakaeke i te huaketo hei ārai i te horapatanga ki tō tinana. Kātahi ka wāwāhitia te waehere ā-ira mai i te kano ārai mate, ka tere, ka māmā hoki te tangohia e tō tinana. Kāore ngā kano ārai mate mRNA e puri i te huaketo e tuku ana i te KOWHEORI-19, tētahi atu huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei. Kāore he painga, he tauwhitiwhiti ranei ki ō DNA, ki ō ira ranei. e kore e uru ngā kano ārai mate mRNA ki te puku o te pūtau, kei reira e mau ana ō tātau DNA. I whanaketia ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mā roto i ngā mahi ngātahitanga ā-ao nui. Kua rangahau, kua mahi hoki ngā kairangahau i ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mō ngā tau maha. Kei roto i tēnei ko ngā rangahau o ngā kano ārai mate rewharewha, Zika, rabies me te cytomegalovirus (CMV). Kua rangahaua hoki e ngā kaipūtaiao ngā pokenga mate korona i mua pēnei i te SARS me te MERS. Nō te tautuhitanga o ngā kaipūtaiao i te mate korona e puta ai te KOWHEORI-19, i tere tā rātou urutau i ngā hangarau mō te KOWHEORI-19. Ahakoa he hangarau āhua hou tēnei, i whāia tonutia ngā tikanga arowhai haumaru me ngā waehere. Kei roto hoki ko ngā whakamātautau haumanu ā-ao hei āwhina ki te whakaatu i te kaha ārai pokenga me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate.E whakamahia ana te kano ārai mate Pfizer puta noa i te ao, ā, e haere tonu ana, ngā mahi aroturuki tata mō tōna whaihuatanga me te haumarutanga. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haumaru me te whanaketanga | Safety and development Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono me te kaupare i ngā tāwaretanga | How to find trustworthy information and avoid scams --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) He nui ngā mōhiohio kei te ipurangi me ngā pae pāpori mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Ka kitea e koe ngā mōhiohio horopū, i takea i runga i ngā mahi pūtaiao hoki, i ēnei wāhi: Ko Te Manatū Hauora te kaiārahi o te pūnaha hauora, hauātanga hoki o Aotearoa, ā, nōna te kawenga whānui mō te whakahaeretanga me te whanaketanga o taua pūnaha. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) He rōpū whakahaere ā-motu a IMAC e noho ana ki te School of Population Health i Te Whare Wānanga o Tāmaki Makaurau. E whakarato ana i ngā mōhiohio motuhake, pono hoki i poua iho ki ngā rangahau pūtaiao o te ao me Aotearoa mō ngā mate ka kauparetia e te kano ārai mate, me ngā hua me ngā mōreareatanga o te tuku awhikiri. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) He umanga te WHO nā Te Rūnanga Whakakotahi i ngā Iwi o te Ao, ā, nōna te kawenga mō te hauora tūmatanui ā-ao. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - WHO (external link) Tērā ētahi āhuatanga matua me mōhio rawa koe mō te kano ārai mate e pā ana ki ngā tāwaretanga: E kore rawa koe e tonoa kia utu mō te kano ārai mate, te uru rānei ki te whakapūmau i tō tūranga tūtira. Ko ngā mōhiohio ōkawa mō te kano ārai mate ka ahu mai i ētahi kaiwhakarato pono o ngā kōrero hauora, pēnei i Te Manatū Hauora, Unite against Covid-19, tō poari hauora ā-rohe (DHB). E kore tētahi kaimahi hauora e toro atu ki a koe i tō kāinga ki te tuku kano ārai mate, māna, i whakaritea ki a koe i mua. E kore koe e tonoa mō ō mōhiohio whaiaro mā te pātuhi, īmēra rānei. Ina kite koe, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ, ā, kaua e whakautu ki te karere. Ina whiwhi īmēra, waea, SMS rānei e tono ana i a koe mō ngā taipitopito ā-tahua e pā ana ki te kano ārai mate, he tāwaretanga tērā. Me wawe te ripoata ki a CERT NZ Ina kite koe i ētahi kōrero teka mō te kano ārai mate, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ (external link) Waihoki, ka taea e koe te waea ki a rātou i te 0800 237 869 . Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tāwaretanga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- He nui ngā mōhiohio kei te ipurangi me ngā pae pāpori mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Ka kitea e koe ngā mōhiohio horopū, i takea i runga i ngā mahi pūtaiao hoki, i ēnei wāhi: Ko Te Manatū Hauora te kaiārahi o te pūnaha hauora, hauātanga hoki o Aotearoa, ā, nōna te kawenga whānui mō te whakahaeretanga me te whanaketanga o taua pūnaha. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) He rōpū whakahaere ā-motu a IMAC e noho ana ki te School of Population Health i Te Whare Wānanga o Tāmaki Makaurau. E whakarato ana i ngā mōhiohio motuhake, pono hoki i poua iho ki ngā rangahau pūtaiao o te ao me Aotearoa mō ngā mate ka kauparetia e te kano ārai mate, me ngā hua me ngā mōreareatanga o te tuku awhikiri. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) He umanga te WHO nā Te Rūnanga Whakakotahi i ngā Iwi o te Ao, ā, nōna te kawenga mō te hauora tūmatanui ā-ao. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - WHO (external link) Tērā ētahi āhuatanga matua me mōhio rawa koe mō te kano ārai mate e pā ana ki ngā tāwaretanga: E kore rawa koe e tonoa kia utu mō te kano ārai mate, te uru rānei ki te whakapūmau i tō tūranga tūtira. Ko ngā mōhiohio ōkawa mō te kano ārai mate ka ahu mai i ētahi kaiwhakarato pono o ngā kōrero hauora, pēnei i Te Manatū Hauora, Unite against Covid-19, tō poari hauora ā-rohe (DHB). E kore tētahi kaimahi hauora e toro atu ki a koe i tō kāinga ki te tuku kano ārai mate, māna, i whakaritea ki a koe i mua. E kore koe e tonoa mō ō mōhiohio whaiaro mā te pātuhi, īmēra rānei. Ina kite koe, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ, ā, kaua e whakautu ki te karere. Ina whiwhi īmēra, waea, SMS rānei e tono ana i a koe mō ngā taipitopito ā-tahua e pā ana ki te kano ārai mate, he tāwaretanga tērā. Me wawe te ripoata ki a CERT NZ Ina kite koe i ētahi kōrero teka mō te kano ārai mate, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ (external link) Waihoki, ka taea e koe te waea ki a rātou i te 0800 237 869 . Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tāwaretanga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Te haumaru me te whanaketanga | Safety and development Ngā pānga kino o ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 | Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i te 1-2 rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te werohanga tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka pā kinotia taupuatia pea tō āhei ki te hautū waka, te whakahaere pūrere rānei i ngā pānga kino. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te werohanga tuarua. Ngā pānga kino tauhou, onge hoki - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e manawarau ana tō noho, ka taea e koe te: whakamau papanga mātai, māku hoki, tētahi pēke tio rānei ki te wāhi wero mō te wā iti me whakatā, me kaha te inu wai me kai paracetamol, ibuprofen rānei. Mēnā he āwangawanga āu, e māuiui ana rānei i muri mai i tō werohanga, kōrero ki tō tākuta ā-whānau, tētahi atu mātanga hauora rānei, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā e māharahara ana koe mō tō oranga, waea ki 111. Whakamōhio atu kua whiwhi koe i tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai tika i a koe. He wā anō ka pā ngā pāwera kino engari he tino onge. Mēnā i pā tētahi tauhohenga pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki a koe i tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrero ki tō kaituku kano i tō taenga atu ki tō toronga tuku kano ārai mate. Mēnā ka pā tētahi tauhohenga i te wā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ka tau atu tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te tiaki i a koe. Ko te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) he pātengi raraunga o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Ka aroturuki a CARM i tēnei mōhiohio ki te tautuhi i ngā take hei āwhina i te whakamahinga haumaru me te tūtohu rongoā. Ina hiahia koe, ka taea e koe te whāki i ō pānga kino. Mā te whāki i ō pānga taha ka whai wāhi koe ki ngā raraunga e kohia ana i te ao, ā, me te āwhina ki te tautuhi i ngā tauira i Aotearoa me ngā tūpono take haumaru. Whākina ō pānga kino ki te CARM (external link) Ngā pānga kino i whākina i Aotearoa (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i te 1-2 rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te werohanga tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka pā kinotia taupuatia pea tō āhei ki te hautū waka, te whakahaere pūrere rānei i ngā pānga kino. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te werohanga tuarua. Ngā pānga kino tauhou, onge hoki - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e manawarau ana tō noho, ka taea e koe te: whakamau papanga mātai, māku hoki, tētahi pēke tio rānei ki te wāhi wero mō te wā iti me whakatā, me kaha te inu wai me kai paracetamol, ibuprofen rānei. Mēnā he āwangawanga āu, e māuiui ana rānei i muri mai i tō werohanga, kōrero ki tō tākuta ā-whānau, tētahi atu mātanga hauora rānei, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā e māharahara ana koe mō tō oranga, waea ki 111. Whakamōhio atu kua whiwhi koe i tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai tika i a koe. He wā anō ka pā ngā pāwera kino engari he tino onge. Mēnā i pā tētahi tauhohenga pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki a koe i tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrero ki tō kaituku kano i tō taenga atu ki tō toronga tuku kano ārai mate. Mēnā ka pā tētahi tauhohenga i te wā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ka tau atu tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te tiaki i a koe. Ko te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) he pātengi raraunga o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Ka aroturuki a CARM i tēnei mōhiohio ki te tautuhi i ngā take hei āwhina i te whakamahinga haumaru me te tūtohu rongoā. Ina hiahia koe, ka taea e koe te whāki i ō pānga kino. Mā te whāki i ō pānga taha ka whai wāhi koe ki ngā raraunga e kohia ana i te ao, ā, me te āwhina ki te tautuhi i ngā tauira i Aotearoa me ngā tūpono take haumaru. Whākina ō pānga kino ki te CARM (external link) Ngā pānga kino i whākina i Aotearoa (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Ngā kōrero taketake mō te kano ārai mate | Vaccine basics --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene. Ko wai e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? E āta whakaputa haeretia ana te kano ārai mate. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke, kei roto i tētahi o ngā kāhui kano ārai mate e 4. Tuatahi, ka tiakina e mātou te hunga e tino mōrearea ana o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 i tō rātou wāhi mahi.  Mā tēnei e whakaiti i te mōrearea o ngā pokenga me ngā rāhuitanga ā muri ake nei. Whai muri mai, ka tukuna te kano ārai mate ki te hunga e tino mōrearea ana o te pānga ki te mate taumaha, te mate tonu atu rānei ina pā te huaketo ki a rātou. Hei te mutunga, ka tukuna te kano ārai mate ki te rahinga atu o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa kei tua o te 12 tau te pakeke. He kore utu te kano ārai mate mā te katoa, ahakoa tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi mō tētahi take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei, ka taea pea e koe te tono mō te werohanga kano ārai mate wawe. Me pēhea te tono mo te werohanga wawe Te kano ārai mate me tō tūranga mahi Ko te kano ārai mate a Pfizer anake te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia i Aotearoa. Kua riro i a mātou te 10 miriona werohanga - ka nui tēnei mō te 5 miriona tāngata, kia whiwhi i ngā werohanga e 2 e tika ana kia āraitia. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer: he kano ārai mate karere RNA (mRNA) kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto kāore koe e pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 kāore e pā kinotia tō DNA kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Me whiwhi koe i tō werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate i te 42 rā, neke atu rānei (6 wiki) i muri mai i te werohanga tuatahi. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i muri i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapu kōrero mō ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate Ka aromatawaitia ngā tono o ngā rongoā hou katoa e te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa e Medsafe. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā kano ārai mate. Kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te whakamahinga o tētahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, me whakapono ia ka: ea katoa ngā hihiratanga haumaru a Aotearoa whai i ngā paerewa ā-ao mō te haumarutanga, te whaihuatanga me te kounga. He tino whaihua te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā ka whiwhi te tangata i ngā werohanga e rua. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i pehea te whanaketanga me te whakaaetanga o te kano ārai mate Kia whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, kāore koe i te tiaki noa iho i a koe. E whai wāhi ana koe ki te whakaititanga o te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. He wawe rawa i tēnei wā ki te whai mōhio mēnā ka taea e koe te tuku i te huaketo i muri mai o te werohanga ārai mate. Hei āwhina ki te ārai i a koutou ko tō whānau me ētahi atu, me āwhina tonu koe ki te ārai i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19 i muri mai i te werohanga kano ārai mate. Ki mahara ki te: Āta horoi i ō ringa Me maremare, matihe hoki ki tō tuke. Me mau kōpare i runga i ngā ikiiki tūmatanui Whai haere tonu i ō tapuwae Whakakāhia te rapunga hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer Noho ki te kāinga ka waea ki Healthline ( 0800 358 5453 (external link) ) mēnā kei te māuiui koe He nui ngā mōhiohio tuihono, pae pāpori hoki mō te kano ārai mate. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono mō ngā kano ārai mate E rapu ana mātou i ētahi atu kaituku kano ārai mate hei tautoko i te whakaputanga o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā he mātanga hauora kua tāoki, kāore rānei i te mahi i tēnei wā i te ahumahi hauora, ā, e hiahia ana koe ki te tū hei kaitūao, haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora ki te rēhita i tō hiahia. Rēhitatia tō hiahia ki te tū hei kaituku kano ārai mate (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene. Ko wai e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? E āta whakaputa haeretia ana te kano ārai mate. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke, kei roto i tētahi o ngā kāhui kano ārai mate e 4. Tuatahi, ka tiakina e mātou te hunga e tino mōrearea ana o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 i tō rātou wāhi mahi.  Mā tēnei e whakaiti i te mōrearea o ngā pokenga me ngā rāhuitanga ā muri ake nei. Whai muri mai, ka tukuna te kano ārai mate ki te hunga e tino mōrearea ana o te pānga ki te mate taumaha, te mate tonu atu rānei ina pā te huaketo ki a rātou. Hei te mutunga, ka tukuna te kano ārai mate ki te rahinga atu o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa kei tua o te 12 tau te pakeke. He kore utu te kano ārai mate mā te katoa, ahakoa tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Mēnā e hiahia ana koe ki te haere ki tāwāhi mō tētahi take ngākau aroha, mō tētahi take nui ki te motu rānei, ka taea pea e koe te tono mō te werohanga kano ārai mate wawe. Me pēhea te tono mo te werohanga wawe Te kano ārai mate me tō tūranga mahi Ko te kano ārai mate a Pfizer anake te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia i Aotearoa. Kua riro i a mātou te 10 miriona werohanga - ka nui tēnei mō te 5 miriona tāngata, kia whiwhi i ngā werohanga e 2 e tika ana kia āraitia. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer: he kano ārai mate karere RNA (mRNA) kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto kāore koe e pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 kāore e pā kinotia tō DNA kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Me whiwhi koe i tō werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate i te 42 rā, neke atu rānei (6 wiki) i muri mai i te werohanga tuatahi. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i muri i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapu kōrero mō ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate Ka aromatawaitia ngā tono o ngā rongoā hou katoa e te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa e Medsafe. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā kano ārai mate. Kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te whakamahinga o tētahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, me whakapono ia ka: ea katoa ngā hihiratanga haumaru a Aotearoa whai i ngā paerewa ā-ao mō te haumarutanga, te whaihuatanga me te kounga. He tino whaihua te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā ka whiwhi te tangata i ngā werohanga e rua. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i pehea te whanaketanga me te whakaaetanga o te kano ārai mate Kia whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, kāore koe i te tiaki noa iho i a koe. E whai wāhi ana koe ki te whakaititanga o te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. He wawe rawa i tēnei wā ki te whai mōhio mēnā ka taea e koe te tuku i te huaketo i muri mai o te werohanga ārai mate. Hei āwhina ki te ārai i a koutou ko tō whānau me ētahi atu, me āwhina tonu koe ki te ārai i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19 i muri mai i te werohanga kano ārai mate. Ki mahara ki te: Āta horoi i ō ringa Me maremare, matihe hoki ki tō tuke. Me mau kōpare i runga i ngā ikiiki tūmatanui Whai haere tonu i ō tapuwae Whakakāhia te rapunga hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer Noho ki te kāinga ka waea ki Healthline ( 0800 358 5453 (external link) ) mēnā kei te māuiui koe He nui ngā mōhiohio tuihono, pae pāpori hoki mō te kano ārai mate. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono mō ngā kano ārai mate E rapu ana mātou i ētahi atu kaituku kano ārai mate hei tautoko i te whakaputanga o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā he mātanga hauora kua tāoki, kāore rānei i te mahi i tēnei wā i te ahumahi hauora, ā, e hiahia ana koe ki te tū hei kaitūao, haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora ki te rēhita i tō hiahia. Rēhitatia tō hiahia ki te tū hei kaituku kano ārai mate (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te Rongoā Ārai Mate Korona | The COVID-19 vaccine Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi kano ārai mate | Vaccine posters and resources --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Te tāpui i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 306 KB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination Kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19: Rapua ngā meka [PDF, 270 KB] COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts Tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 — Ngā mea katoa me mōhio koe [PDF, 733 KB] Your COVID-19 vaccination: everything you need to know Te whiwhi i tō rongoā ārai mate [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect I muri i tō wero ārai mate [PDF, 77 KB] After your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te tāpui i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 306 KB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination Kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19: Rapua ngā meka [PDF, 270 KB] COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts Tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 — Ngā mea katoa me mōhio koe [PDF, 733 KB] Your COVID-19 vaccination: everything you need to know Te whiwhi i tō rongoā ārai mate [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect I muri i tō wero ārai mate [PDF, 77 KB] After your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te haere ki, i Aotearoa | Travel to and from New Zealand Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Ka noho tonu ko te kauparenga nui mō tātou ko te ārai atu i te huaketo mai i Aotearoa. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi te nuinga o ngā kaihāereere ki Aotearoa i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mua i te wehe e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana, i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga tuatahi ki tāwāhi. Ka wātea ngā whenua e whai ake nei i tētahi whakamātau i mua i te wehenga: Te Tiri o te Moana (Antarctica) Kuki Airani (The Cook Islands) Ngā Whenua Tōpū o Maikoronihia (Federated States of Micronesia) Whītī (Fiji) Kiripati Ngā Moutere o Marshall Nauru Kanaki (New Caledonia) Niue Pārao Hāmoa (Samoa) Ngā Motu o Horomona (Solomon Islands) Tokerau Tonga Tūwaru Whenuatū Kua whakaūngia e te Manatu Hauora ngā momo whakamātautau e whai ake nei e whakaaetia ana mō ngā whenua katoa hāunga ngā whenua o Ahitereiria me ngā whenua tino mōrearea: Whakamātau Whakarahi Waikawa Karihi (NAAT), kei roto ko te PCR, RT-PCR me te TMA, LAMP, whakamātau ā-paturopi (tērā pea e kīia ana he whakamātau wheori paturopi) rānei. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi ngā kaihāereere mai i Ahitereiria i ngā whakamātautau PCR, RT-PCR rānei i mua i te wehenga. Me whai taunakitanga rawa ngā kaihāereere mai i ngā whenua tino mōrearea o tētahi whakamātautau ihu-korokoro RT-PCR (PCR) e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana. Kimihia ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whenua tino mōrearea Ka wātea ngā tamariki i raro iho i te rua tau (24 marama) i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ka wātea ngā kaihāereere e whakawhiti ana mā Aotearoa ki tō rātou taunga whakamutunga, me te noho i te taha rerenga, i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ko ngā kaihāereere kāore e āhei atu te whai whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, me toro atu ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga. Me tuku rātou i tētahi tiwhikete rongoā ki a koe e kī ana e kore koe e āhei ki te whai tētahi whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, ā, kāore i a koe ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he whakamātautau tāu i mua i te wehenga e kī ana kua whai tohumate koe, engari e whakapono ana koe nā tētahi whakapokenga o mua o te KOWHEORI-19, me toro atu koe ki tētahi tākuta māna koe e tirotiro mō ngā tohumate hou o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e tino mōhio ana ia kāore i a koe tētahi pokenga KOWHEORI-19 i taua wā tonu, māna e tuku ki a koe: tētahi tiwhikete rongoā me te rā o tō whakamātautau o mua e kī ana kei te mate, ā, mēnā e hāngai ana, ngā tuhinga e whāki ana, e whakaaro ana ia kua kore koe e pokea e te KOWHEORI-19. E whakaaetia ana ngā tiwhikete rongoā i roto i ngā reo kē. E tino tohutohua ana te hunga haere ki te pātai ki tō(ō) rātau kamupene rererangi mō ētahi atu whakaritenga whakamātau i mua i te wehenga. E tohutohua ana hoki rātau kia tirotirohia nga whakaritenga o ētahi atu whenua ka whakawhitia e rātau. Kia tae ki Aotearoa, e hiahiatia ana te nuinga o te hunga haere, hāunga ērā e haere mai ana hei wāhi ote Haerenga Taratahi Kore , kia: Noho mō te 14 rā i roto i tā mātau tukanga noho mohoao, taratahi hoki whiwhi i tētahi whakamātau PCR KOWHEORI-19 i te rā 0, arā, i tō rātau taenga ki te wāhi noho mohoao mō te wā tuatahi noho ki roto i tō rātou rūma kia tutuki rā anō te putanga o taua whakamātautau mēnā he tohumate ō rātou i te taetanga atu, ka kawea tikahia ki tētahi whare noho taratahi. Ko te tikanga ka 24-48 hāora te roa i mua i te whiwhinga i ngā hua whakamātautau. Mēnā ka kī te whakamātautau kāore te tangata i te mate, ka tutuki i a ia te toenga o te 14 rā i roto i te wāhi noho mohoao. Ka whakaritea kia whakamātautauria anō rātou i te rā 3 pea o te noho, ā, me te rā 12. I te nuinga o ngā kēhi, e hiahiatia ana tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e kī ana kāore te tangata i te mate me te whakaūtanga mai i tā mātou rōpū hauora he iti te mōrearea kua pāngia, o te horapa rānei i te KOWHEORI-19, i mua i te wehenga i te whare noho. Mēnā e ai ki te otinga kei te pāngia te tangata, ka whakawhitia taua tangata ki te whare noho taratahi i mua noa atu mēnā kāore he whakamātautau rā 0. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō te Haere Taratahi Kore Mō ngā whakahounga hou rawa o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā toro atu ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te noho mohoao me te noho taratahi tēnā toro atu ki: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ka noho tonu ko te kauparenga nui mō tātou ko te ārai atu i te huaketo mai i Aotearoa. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi te nuinga o ngā kaihāereere ki Aotearoa i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mua i te wehe e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana, i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga tuatahi ki tāwāhi. Ka wātea ngā whenua e whai ake nei i tētahi whakamātau i mua i te wehenga: Te Tiri o te Moana (Antarctica) Kuki Airani (The Cook Islands) Ngā Whenua Tōpū o Maikoronihia (Federated States of Micronesia) Whītī (Fiji) Kiripati Ngā Moutere o Marshall Nauru Kanaki (New Caledonia) Niue Pārao Hāmoa (Samoa) Ngā Motu o Horomona (Solomon Islands) Tokerau Tonga Tūwaru Whenuatū Kua whakaūngia e te Manatu Hauora ngā momo whakamātautau e whai ake nei e whakaaetia ana mō ngā whenua katoa hāunga ngā whenua o Ahitereiria me ngā whenua tino mōrearea: Whakamātau Whakarahi Waikawa Karihi (NAAT), kei roto ko te PCR, RT-PCR me te TMA, LAMP, whakamātau ā-paturopi (tērā pea e kīia ana he whakamātau wheori paturopi) rānei. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi ngā kaihāereere mai i Ahitereiria i ngā whakamātautau PCR, RT-PCR rānei i mua i te wehenga. Me whai taunakitanga rawa ngā kaihāereere mai i ngā whenua tino mōrearea o tētahi whakamātautau ihu-korokoro RT-PCR (PCR) e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana. Kimihia ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whenua tino mōrearea Ka wātea ngā tamariki i raro iho i te rua tau (24 marama) i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ka wātea ngā kaihāereere e whakawhiti ana mā Aotearoa ki tō rātou taunga whakamutunga, me te noho i te taha rerenga, i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ko ngā kaihāereere kāore e āhei atu te whai whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, me toro atu ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga. Me tuku rātou i tētahi tiwhikete rongoā ki a koe e kī ana e kore koe e āhei ki te whai tētahi whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, ā, kāore i a koe ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he whakamātautau tāu i mua i te wehenga e kī ana kua whai tohumate koe, engari e whakapono ana koe nā tētahi whakapokenga o mua o te KOWHEORI-19, me toro atu koe ki tētahi tākuta māna koe e tirotiro mō ngā tohumate hou o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e tino mōhio ana ia kāore i a koe tētahi pokenga KOWHEORI-19 i taua wā tonu, māna e tuku ki a koe: tētahi tiwhikete rongoā me te rā o tō whakamātautau o mua e kī ana kei te mate, ā, mēnā e hāngai ana, ngā tuhinga e whāki ana, e whakaaro ana ia kua kore koe e pokea e te KOWHEORI-19. E whakaaetia ana ngā tiwhikete rongoā i roto i ngā reo kē. E tino tohutohua ana te hunga haere ki te pātai ki tō(ō) rātau kamupene rererangi mō ētahi atu whakaritenga whakamātau i mua i te wehenga. E tohutohua ana hoki rātau kia tirotirohia nga whakaritenga o ētahi atu whenua ka whakawhitia e rātau. Kia tae ki Aotearoa, e hiahiatia ana te nuinga o te hunga haere, hāunga ērā e haere mai ana hei wāhi ote Haerenga Taratahi Kore , kia: Noho mō te 14 rā i roto i tā mātau tukanga noho mohoao, taratahi hoki whiwhi i tētahi whakamātau PCR KOWHEORI-19 i te rā 0, arā, i tō rātau taenga ki te wāhi noho mohoao mō te wā tuatahi noho ki roto i tō rātou rūma kia tutuki rā anō te putanga o taua whakamātautau mēnā he tohumate ō rātou i te taetanga atu, ka kawea tikahia ki tētahi whare noho taratahi. Ko te tikanga ka 24-48 hāora te roa i mua i te whiwhinga i ngā hua whakamātautau. Mēnā ka kī te whakamātautau kāore te tangata i te mate, ka tutuki i a ia te toenga o te 14 rā i roto i te wāhi noho mohoao. Ka whakaritea kia whakamātautauria anō rātou i te rā 3 pea o te noho, ā, me te rā 12. I te nuinga o ngā kēhi, e hiahiatia ana tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e kī ana kāore te tangata i te mate me te whakaūtanga mai i tā mātou rōpū hauora he iti te mōrearea kua pāngia, o te horapa rānei i te KOWHEORI-19, i mua i te wehenga i te whare noho. Mēnā e ai ki te otinga kei te pāngia te tangata, ka whakawhitia taua tangata ki te whare noho taratahi i mua noa atu mēnā kāore he whakamātautau rā 0. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō te Haere Taratahi Kore Mō ngā whakahounga hou rawa o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā toro atu ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te noho mohoao me te noho taratahi tēnā toro atu ki: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Iwi and communities Translations Te reo Māori Te haere ki, i Aotearoa | Travel to and from New Zealand Te Haere Taratahi-Kore | Quarantine-Free Travel --- Section Separator --- Puka Hāereere Taratahi Kore: Ahitereiria (Australia) → Aotearoa kua whakatārewatia (Suspended) He 7-rā te wā e wātea ana mō ‘ngā rerenga hoki kākāriki’ mai i ngā rohe takiwā katoa o Ahitereiria (hāunga a NSW) kia hoki ai te hunga haere ki te kāinga. Kāore te hunga hoki i runga i ēnei rerenga e mate ki te noho taratahi i te hokinga atu, engari anō mēnā kei te haere atu koe mai i Victoria . Tēnā hihiratia auautia te whārangi Hāereere Taratahi-Kore kei te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 mō ngā mōhiohio hou rawa. Ki te raru ō whakaritenga hāereere, ka taea e koe te whakapā atu ki tō pakihi rererangi, kaiwhakarite hāereere me te kaiinihua hāereere. I tēnei wā, he ritenga Taratahi-Kore tō Aotearoa me ēnei motu: Ahitereiria Kūki Airani Niue (mai i Niue ki Aotearoa anake) Ko te tikanga o te Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te neke mai i tētahi motu ki tētahi me te kore noho taratahi inā ka tae atu koe. Kāore hoki he take o te whakamātautau i mua i tāu wehenga. Ka taea e te tangata te Haere Taratahi-Kore noa inā tatū ngā paearu ritenga, me ngā ritenga take manene o te motu e haere nā koe. I tēnei wā, ko ngā Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te haere i waenganui o Aotearoa me tētahi atu motu anake. Hei tauira, ka āhei koe ki te Haere Taratahi-Kore i waenganui o Kūki Airani me Aotearoa, engari me noho taratahi rawa koe mō te 14 rā i mua i te haerenga ki te whenua Taratahi-Kore o Ahitereiria. Māna kei te noho kape koe, me mau ārai kanohi, uhi kanohi rānei inā haere mai ana koe ki Aotearoa, inā wehe atu ana rānei. Me mau ārai kanohi hoki koe i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui katoa o Aotearoa. Ko ētahi anō tāngata kāore he take ki te mau ārai kanohi. Ki te panoni Te Pae Mataara ki Aotearoa, ki te rerekē rānei te āhuatanga ki tētahi motu Haere Taratahi-Kore, ka pāhongia e tēnei pae tukutuku ( covid19.govt.nz ), me ngā pae tukutuku rongo kōrero. Ki te puta anō te mate ki te hapori i Aotearoa nei, i tētahi motu Taratahi-Kore rānei, tērā ka whakatūria e te Kāwanatanga te haere taratahi-kore hei aromātai i te tūraru, tērā rānei hīkina ngā haerenga mō tētahi wā roa ake. Me whai mahere te hunga haere, me rite hoki mō te tūpono raru rānei i ōu haerenga. Tirohia mai ngā whakamārama hou rawa mō Te Haere Taratahi-Kore E āhei ai koe ki te haere taratahi-kore ki Aotearoa: me tutuki ngā here manene katoa me whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau wehe tōmua tōraro i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i te wehenga mēnā e haere mai ana koe i Ahitereiria. me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki te motu rānei e haere nā koe mō te 14 rā. Hei tauira, mēnā e wehe ana koe i Ahitereiria, me mātua noho koe ki Ahitereiria, ki Aotearoa rānei mō te 14 rā e wātea ai ki te haere taratahi-kore. Ka wātea koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā mēnā kāore koe i raru i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga. Mēnā kua pāngia kē koe, me mātua whiwhi tuhi whakaaetanga koe i tētahi kaimahi hauora, e kī ana kua makere katoa atu te mate i a koe mēnā kāore koe i te tiaki kia hoki mai he whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 me whakakī rawa he tauākī haerenga (external link) – mēnā kāore e whakakīa kāore koe e whakaaetia kia kake i te waka rererangi me whakautu rawa he pātai e pā ana ki tō hauora hei te wehenga atu. Mēnā he mate tōu e taunaki ana i ōu tohumate, me kawe mai e koe tētahi tiwhikete hauora kia kore ai koe e aukatia ki te kake i te waka rererangi. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakamātautau wehe tōmua Tāutangia, whakamahia hoki te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Kāore he raru nō Aotearoa rānei tō waea pūkoro, tō kaute Āporo, tō kaute Kūkara rānei, mō te tāuta i te Kaiaru KOWHEORI. Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā kei a koe ngā tohumate o te hūwiniwini, o te rewharewha o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki: te waea-hauora Healthline i te nama kore-utu 0800 358 5453 tō rata, rānei tō kaiwhakarato hauora ā-iwi rānei. Mā te mātanga hauora e tohu atu mēnā me whakamātautau koe. Tēnā waea atu ki tō rata i mua i tō haerenga atu mēnā he tohumate ōu. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Ahitereiria: me tatū ngā ritenga manene me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki Ahitereiria rānei mō te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga – arā ka āhei koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā. me whakakī rawa he tauākī haere kia 72 hāora rawa i mua i te wehenga atu i Aotearoa ( https://covid19.homeaffairs.gov.au/australia-traveldeclaration (external link) ) mēnā kāore ōu tohumate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā kāore koe i pāngia e tētahi tangata mate KOWHEORI-19 me tiro rawa kei te whakaae te rohe te takiwā rānei e haere ana koe, ki ngā rererangi Taratahi-Kore. I a koe i Ahitereiria, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. Mō ngā whakamārama mõ te KOWHEORI-19, mō ngā wāhi aronui, mō ngā tūāhua haerenga (tae atu ki ngā haerenga o te motu) me ngā whakamātautau, haere koa ki te pae tukutuku o te rohe kei reira koe. E whai ake nei ko ngā pārongo KOWHEORI-19 mō ia rohe, mō ia takiwā rānei: Te Takiwā Matua o Ahitereiria (external link) Niu Taute Wēra (external link) Te Takiwā o te Raki (external link) Kuīniwhenua (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Tonga (external link) Tāhimana (external link) Wikitōria (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Uru (external link) Arā tonu tētahi taupānga aru mō Ahitereiria whānui, engari he taupānga kē tō te nuinga o ia rohe o ia takiwā. Ka taea e koe te tāuta i te nuinga o ēnei taupānga me te kāri SIM o Aotearoa. Me whai pea koe i tētahi kāri SIM o Ahitereiria, i ngā taipitopito whakapā o Ahitereiria rānei, hei whakamahi i ētahi o ēnei taupānga. Ko tā mātou ki a koutou, me puri ēnei taupānga ki tō waea mō te 1 marama, mō te tūpono whiwhi whakatūpatotanga koe whai muri i tō wehenga atu i te rohe. Ki te kore e taea, e pīrangitia rānei te whakamahi i te taupānga, me whakamahi rawa e koe ngā taupānga a ngā pakihi ake me ngā toa ake, i mua i tō takiurutanga. Tāutangia ngā taupānga ā-rohe: Te Takiwā Matua o Ahitereiria (ACT) – Tirohia te taupānga CBR (external link) Niu Taute Wēra – taupānga Ratonga NSW (external link) Te Takiwā o te Raki – Te taupānga Takiuru o Te Takiwā (external link) Kuīniwhenua – Takiuru taupānga Qld (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Tonga – taupānga mySA GOV (external link) Tāhimana – Takiuru taupānga TAS (external link) Wikitōria - taupānga Ratonga Wikitōria (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Uru – taupānga SafeWA (external link) (me whai pea koe i te kāri SIM o Ahitereiria kia whiwhi kaute taupānga SafeWA) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka waea atu ki te rata mō ētahi āwhina. Waea atu ki te nama waea ā-Motu mō te rongoā ārai mate korona, KOWHEORI-19, ki te nama waea 1800 020 080 . Kāore he utu mō te waea atu i roto o Ahitereiria. Ka āhei ki te waea atu i ngā haora 24 o te rā, i ngā rā e 7 o te wiki. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Kūki Airani: me tatū rawa ngā ritenga manene me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki Ahitereiria rānei ki Kūki Airani rānei mō te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga atu – arā ka āhei koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā mēnā kāore koe i pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga. Mēnā kua pāngia kē koe, me mātua whiwhi tuhi whakaaetanga koe i tētahi kaimahi hauora, e kī ana kua makere katoa atu te mate i a koe mēnā kāore koe i te tiaki kia hoki mai tō whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. I a koe i Kūki Airani, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. He whakamārama anō kei te pae tukutuku a te Kāwanatanga o Kūki Airani (external link) He pūnaha rerekē tō Kūki Airani. Māu rawa e: rēhita ka kawe hoki i te Kāri QR o CookSafe hei takiuru ki ngā wāhi ka tae atu koe whakakāngia te kaiaru Bluetooth o te taupānga CookSafe+. Ka mahi tahi te taupānga CookSafe+ me te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Ko ngā waehere (ngā kī rānei) o Bluetooth ka tonoa mai, ka kohia rānei e te taupānga i tō waea mā tētahi o ngā taupānga nei, ka tuwhera anō ki tētahi atu. Ka mahi ngātahi ngā taupānga nei, ā, ka tangi te tūtei mēnā i pātata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga i pāngia nei e te KOWHEORI-19. Mō ētahi atu whakamārama mō te KĀRI QR o CookSafe (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i Kūki Airani, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka ūhia tō kanohi, mēnā he uhi kanohi tōu. Kaua e whakamahi i ngā waka tūmatanui. Waea atu ki te waea-hauora Healthline o Kūki Airani i te nama waea 29667 mō ētahi āwhina. --- Section Separator --- Puka Hāereere Taratahi Kore: Ahitereiria (Australia) → Aotearoa kua whakatārewatia (Suspended) He 7-rā te wā e wātea ana mō ‘ngā rerenga hoki kākāriki’ mai i ngā rohe takiwā katoa o Ahitereiria (hāunga a NSW) kia hoki ai te hunga haere ki te kāinga. Kāore te hunga hoki i runga i ēnei rerenga e mate ki te noho taratahi i te hokinga atu, engari anō mēnā kei te haere atu koe mai i Victoria . Tēnā hihiratia auautia te whārangi Hāereere Taratahi-Kore kei te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 mō ngā mōhiohio hou rawa. Ki te raru ō whakaritenga hāereere, ka taea e koe te whakapā atu ki tō pakihi rererangi, kaiwhakarite hāereere me te kaiinihua hāereere. --- Section Separator --- I tēnei wā, he ritenga Taratahi-Kore tō Aotearoa me ēnei motu: Ahitereiria Kūki Airani Niue (mai i Niue ki Aotearoa anake) Ko te tikanga o te Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te neke mai i tētahi motu ki tētahi me te kore noho taratahi inā ka tae atu koe. Kāore hoki he take o te whakamātautau i mua i tāu wehenga. Ka taea e te tangata te Haere Taratahi-Kore noa inā tatū ngā paearu ritenga, me ngā ritenga take manene o te motu e haere nā koe. I tēnei wā, ko ngā Haere Taratahi-Kore, ko te haere i waenganui o Aotearoa me tētahi atu motu anake. Hei tauira, ka āhei koe ki te Haere Taratahi-Kore i waenganui o Kūki Airani me Aotearoa, engari me noho taratahi rawa koe mō te 14 rā i mua i te haerenga ki te whenua Taratahi-Kore o Ahitereiria. Māna kei te noho kape koe, me mau ārai kanohi, uhi kanohi rānei inā haere mai ana koe ki Aotearoa, inā wehe atu ana rānei. Me mau ārai kanohi hoki koe i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui katoa o Aotearoa. Ko ētahi anō tāngata kāore he take ki te mau ārai kanohi. Ki te panoni Te Pae Mataara ki Aotearoa, ki te rerekē rānei te āhuatanga ki tētahi motu Haere Taratahi-Kore, ka pāhongia e tēnei pae tukutuku ( covid19.govt.nz ), me ngā pae tukutuku rongo kōrero. Ki te puta anō te mate ki te hapori i Aotearoa nei, i tētahi motu Taratahi-Kore rānei, tērā ka whakatūria e te Kāwanatanga te haere taratahi-kore hei aromātai i te tūraru, tērā rānei hīkina ngā haerenga mō tētahi wā roa ake. Me whai mahere te hunga haere, me rite hoki mō te tūpono raru rānei i ōu haerenga. Tirohia mai ngā whakamārama hou rawa mō Te Haere Taratahi-Kore E āhei ai koe ki te haere taratahi-kore ki Aotearoa: me tutuki ngā here manene katoa me whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau wehe tōmua tōraro i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i te wehenga mēnā e haere mai ana koe i Ahitereiria. me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki te motu rānei e haere nā koe mō te 14 rā. Hei tauira, mēnā e wehe ana koe i Ahitereiria, me mātua noho koe ki Ahitereiria, ki Aotearoa rānei mō te 14 rā e wātea ai ki te haere taratahi-kore. Ka wātea koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā mēnā kāore koe i raru i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga. Mēnā kua pāngia kē koe, me mātua whiwhi tuhi whakaaetanga koe i tētahi kaimahi hauora, e kī ana kua makere katoa atu te mate i a koe mēnā kāore koe i te tiaki kia hoki mai he whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 me whakakī rawa he tauākī haerenga (external link) – mēnā kāore e whakakīa kāore koe e whakaaetia kia kake i te waka rererangi me whakautu rawa he pātai e pā ana ki tō hauora hei te wehenga atu. Mēnā he mate tōu e taunaki ana i ōu tohumate, me kawe mai e koe tētahi tiwhikete hauora kia kore ai koe e aukatia ki te kake i te waka rererangi. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakamātautau wehe tōmua Tāutangia, whakamahia hoki te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Kāore he raru nō Aotearoa rānei tō waea pūkoro, tō kaute Āporo, tō kaute Kūkara rānei, mō te tāuta i te Kaiaru KOWHEORI. Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia te Taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā kei a koe ngā tohumate o te hūwiniwini, o te rewharewha o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki: te waea-hauora Healthline i te nama kore-utu 0800 358 5453 tō rata, rānei tō kaiwhakarato hauora ā-iwi rānei. Mā te mātanga hauora e tohu atu mēnā me whakamātautau koe. Tēnā waea atu ki tō rata i mua i tō haerenga atu mēnā he tohumate ōu. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Ahitereiria: me tatū ngā ritenga manene me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki Ahitereiria rānei mō te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga – arā ka āhei koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā. me whakakī rawa he tauākī haere kia 72 hāora rawa i mua i te wehenga atu i Aotearoa ( https://covid19.homeaffairs.gov.au/australia-traveldeclaration (external link) ) mēnā kāore ōu tohumate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā kāore koe i pāngia e tētahi tangata mate KOWHEORI-19 me tiro rawa kei te whakaae te rohe te takiwā rānei e haere ana koe, ki ngā rererangi Taratahi-Kore. I a koe i Ahitereiria, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. Mō ngā whakamārama mõ te KOWHEORI-19, mō ngā wāhi aronui, mō ngā tūāhua haerenga (tae atu ki ngā haerenga o te motu) me ngā whakamātautau, haere koa ki te pae tukutuku o te rohe kei reira koe. E whai ake nei ko ngā pārongo KOWHEORI-19 mō ia rohe, mō ia takiwā rānei: Te Takiwā Matua o Ahitereiria (external link) Niu Taute Wēra (external link) Te Takiwā o te Raki (external link) Kuīniwhenua (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Tonga (external link) Tāhimana (external link) Wikitōria (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Uru (external link) Arā tonu tētahi taupānga aru mō Ahitereiria whānui, engari he taupānga kē tō te nuinga o ia rohe o ia takiwā. Ka taea e koe te tāuta i te nuinga o ēnei taupānga me te kāri SIM o Aotearoa. Me whai pea koe i tētahi kāri SIM o Ahitereiria, i ngā taipitopito whakapā o Ahitereiria rānei, hei whakamahi i ētahi o ēnei taupānga. Ko tā mātou ki a koutou, me puri ēnei taupānga ki tō waea mō te 1 marama, mō te tūpono whiwhi whakatūpatotanga koe whai muri i tō wehenga atu i te rohe. Ki te kore e taea, e pīrangitia rānei te whakamahi i te taupānga, me whakamahi rawa e koe ngā taupānga a ngā pakihi ake me ngā toa ake, i mua i tō takiurutanga. Tāutangia ngā taupānga ā-rohe: Te Takiwā Matua o Ahitereiria (ACT) – Tirohia te taupānga CBR (external link) Niu Taute Wēra – taupānga Ratonga NSW (external link) Te Takiwā o te Raki – Te taupānga Takiuru o Te Takiwā (external link) Kuīniwhenua – Takiuru taupānga Qld (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Tonga – taupānga mySA GOV (external link) Tāhimana – Takiuru taupānga TAS (external link) Wikitōria - taupānga Ratonga Wikitōria (external link) Ahitereiria ki te Uru – taupānga SafeWA (external link) (me whai pea koe i te kāri SIM o Ahitereiria kia whiwhi kaute taupānga SafeWA) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka waea atu ki te rata mō ētahi āwhina. Waea atu ki te nama waea ā-Motu mō te rongoā ārai mate korona, KOWHEORI-19, ki te nama waea 1800 020 080 . Kāore he utu mō te waea atu i roto o Ahitereiria. Ka āhei ki te waea atu i ngā haora 24 o te rā, i ngā rā e 7 o te wiki. E haere taratahi-kore koe ki Kūki Airani: me tatū rawa ngā ritenga manene me noho rawa koe ki Aotearoa, ki Ahitereiria rānei ki Kūki Airani rānei mō te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga atu – arā ka āhei koe ki te haere atu i te 15 o ngā rā mēnā kāore koe i pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te 14 rā i mua i tō wehenga. Mēnā kua pāngia kē koe, me mātua whiwhi tuhi whakaaetanga koe i tētahi kaimahi hauora, e kī ana kua makere katoa atu te mate i a koe mēnā kāore koe i te tiaki kia hoki mai tō whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. I a koe i Kūki Airani, he ruarua ngā mea kia mahara iho koe e haumaru ake ai koutou ko tō whānau, ko te hapori hoki, i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te noho akuaku me te tuhi i ō wāhi taenga atu. He whakamārama anō kei te pae tukutuku a te Kāwanatanga o Kūki Airani (external link) He pūnaha rerekē tō Kūki Airani. Māu rawa e: rēhita ka kawe hoki i te Kāri QR o CookSafe hei takiuru ki ngā wāhi ka tae atu koe whakakāngia te kaiaru Bluetooth o te taupānga CookSafe+. Ka mahi tahi te taupānga CookSafe+ me te taupānga Kaiaru KOWHEORI o Aotearoa. Ko ngā waehere (ngā kī rānei) o Bluetooth ka tonoa mai, ka kohia rānei e te taupānga i tō waea mā tētahi o ngā taupānga nei, ka tuwhera anō ki tētahi atu. Ka mahi ngātahi ngā taupānga nei, ā, ka tangi te tūtei mēnā i pātata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga i pāngia nei e te KOWHEORI-19. Mō ētahi atu whakamārama mō te KĀRI QR o CookSafe (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki te Pātaka Taupānga (external link) Tāutangia mai te taupānga CookSafe+ ki Kūkara Purei (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i Kūki Airani, e noho ki tō wāhi noho, ka ūhia tō kanohi, mēnā he uhi kanohi tōu. Kaua e whakamahi i ngā waka tūmatanui. Waea atu ki te waea-hauora Healthline o Kūki Airani i te nama waea 29667 mō ētahi āwhina. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people Support your community Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Rohingya Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Posters --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz . All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you are ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Encourage visitors to use NZ COVID Tracer Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 3 and 4 — A4 [PDF, 196 KB] We're cashless — A5 [PDF, 113 KB] We're cashless — A4 [PDF, 113 KB] We're cashless — DLE [PDF, 113 KB] Cash accepted at this checkout — A5 [PDF, 120 KB] Cash accepted at this checkout — A4 [PDF, 120 KB] Cash accepted at this checkout — DLE [PDF, 120 KB] Card payment preferred — A5 [PDF, 110 KB] Card payment preferred — A4 [PDF, 111 KB] Card payment preferred — DLE [PDF, 110 KB] Contactless/card payment preferred — A5 [PDF, 111 KB] Contactless/card payment preferred — A4 [PDF, 111 KB] Contactless/card payment preferred — DLE [PDF, 111 KB] Face coverings must be worn here — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Face coverings must be worn here — DLE [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in — A5 [PDF, 114 KB] Sanitise on your way in — A4 [PDF, 114 KB] Sanitise on your way in — DLE [PDF, 113 KB] You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Record keeping slips [PDF, 394 KB] Record keeping box sticker [PDF, 73 KB] Record keeping box template — small [PDF, 51 KB] Record keeping box template — medium [PDF, 187 KB] Record keeping box template — large [PDF, 165 KB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your system. Guidance on mandatory record keeping for contact tracing | privacy.org.nz (external link) Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Scan in to help us stay open [PDF, 153 KB] Scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 192 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 153 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.7 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] All actions to keep safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 167 KB] Wash and dry your hands (simple) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and sanitise your hands often [PDF, 120 KB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick [PDF, 116 KB] Stay home if you are sick [PDF, 60 KB] Please wear a face covering [PDF, 114 KB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] Face coverings must be worn here — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Face coverings must be worn here — DLE [PDF, 1.5 MB] Face coverings must be worn here — social [JPG, 306 KB] How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you are waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] Please sit here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please do not sit here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] This is a healthcare facility: Scan in and wear a mask — A4 [PDF, 129 KB] Testing station parking — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Testing station parking — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Be kind [PNG, 85 KB] Card payment preferred [PDF, 111 KB] Cash accepted at this checkout [PDF, 120 KB] Contactless/card payment preferred [PDF, 112 KB] Face coverings must be worn here [JPG, 306 KB] If you are sick or have symptoms, stay home [PNG, 98 KB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PNG, 97 KB] Please keep 2 metres apart [PNG, 103 KB] Sanitise on your way in [PDF, 114 KB] Scanning in helps to keep us open [PNG, 137 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PNG, 133 KB] Wash and sanitise hands often [PNG, 123 KB] We're cashless [PDF, 114 KB] Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you are ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Encourage visitors to use NZ COVID Tracer --- Section Separator --- Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 3 and 4 — A4 [PDF, 196 KB] We're cashless — A5 [PDF, 113 KB] We're cashless — A4 [PDF, 113 KB] We're cashless — DLE [PDF, 113 KB] Cash accepted at this checkout — A5 [PDF, 120 KB] Cash accepted at this checkout — A4 [PDF, 120 KB] Cash accepted at this checkout — DLE [PDF, 120 KB] Card payment preferred — A5 [PDF, 110 KB] Card payment preferred — A4 [PDF, 111 KB] Card payment preferred — DLE [PDF, 110 KB] Contactless/card payment preferred — A5 [PDF, 111 KB] Contactless/card payment preferred — A4 [PDF, 111 KB] Contactless/card payment preferred — DLE [PDF, 111 KB] Face coverings must be worn here — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Face coverings must be worn here — DLE [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in — A5 [PDF, 114 KB] Sanitise on your way in — A4 [PDF, 114 KB] Sanitise on your way in — DLE [PDF, 113 KB] --- Section Separator --- You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Record keeping slips [PDF, 394 KB] Record keeping box sticker [PDF, 73 KB] Record keeping box template — small [PDF, 51 KB] Record keeping box template — medium [PDF, 187 KB] Record keeping box template — large [PDF, 165 KB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your system. Guidance on mandatory record keeping for contact tracing | privacy.org.nz (external link) Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Scan in to help us stay open [PDF, 153 KB] Scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 192 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 153 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.7 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] All actions to keep safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 167 KB] Wash and dry your hands (simple) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and sanitise your hands often [PDF, 120 KB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick [PDF, 116 KB] Stay home if you are sick [PDF, 60 KB] Please wear a face covering [PDF, 114 KB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] Face coverings must be worn here — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Face coverings must be worn here — DLE [PDF, 1.5 MB] Face coverings must be worn here — social [JPG, 306 KB] How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you are waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people [PDF, 1.5 MB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] Please sit here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please do not sit here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- This is a healthcare facility: Scan in and wear a mask — A4 [PDF, 129 KB] Testing station parking — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Testing station parking — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Be kind [PNG, 85 KB] Card payment preferred [PDF, 111 KB] Cash accepted at this checkout [PDF, 120 KB] Contactless/card payment preferred [PDF, 112 KB] Face coverings must be worn here [JPG, 306 KB] If you are sick or have symptoms, stay home [PNG, 98 KB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PNG, 97 KB] Please keep 2 metres apart [PNG, 103 KB] Sanitise on your way in [PDF, 114 KB] Scanning in helps to keep us open [PNG, 137 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PNG, 133 KB] Wash and sanitise hands often [PNG, 123 KB] We're cashless [PDF, 114 KB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages
What travel is permitted with Alert Level 3 and 4, travel across Alert Level boundaries and the Alert Level boundary map. Information about travelling on public transport and in private vehicles, and travelling between regions. Information on travelling between New Zealand and some countries without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Advice for New Zealanders overseas about how to travel to New Zealand, border controls when you arrive and registering with SafeTravel. Advice for foreign nationals about how to get home, and what to do if you cannot get home. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World Download and print resources like posters for wearing face coverings on transport and tracking your journey. --- Section Separator --- What travel is permitted with Alert Level 3 and 4, travel across Alert Level boundaries and the Alert Level boundary map. Information about travelling on public transport and in private vehicles, and travelling between regions. Information on travelling between New Zealand and some countries without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Advice for New Zealanders overseas about how to travel to New Zealand, border controls when you arrive and registering with SafeTravel. Advice for foreign nationals about how to get home, and what to do if you cannot get home. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World Download and print resources like posters for wearing face coverings on transport and tracking your journey.
Home Travel Domestic travel Regional travel --- Section Separator --- If you are living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you have been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you have visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as most ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it is not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering If you are sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor to find out if you should get a test. If you are advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick If you are living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2 for any reason, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you are sick, please do not travel at all — stay home and get tested. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and flights. There are exceptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear a face covering Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you do not know, where possible. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Travel across Alert Level boundaries is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across Alert Level boundaries needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the flight. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small plane or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. You legally must wear a face covering on the Cook Strait ferry. There are exceptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear a face covering Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you are allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. Travel into, out of or through an Alert Level 3 area is restricted. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we can keep our loved ones and communities safe. Anyone wanting to travel across an Alert Level boundary needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary At Alert Level 3 you can only travel locally, and for allowed reasons. For example, going to work or school if you must, or for shopping or to get exercise. Travelling on public transport Travelling in a private vehicle At Alert Level 4, travel is strictly limited. Air travel will be used only to transport: people travelling home in the first 48 hours after the move to Alert Level 4 people undertaking Alert Level 4 services freight, or for other permitted reasons. Other permitted reasons include: to do necessary work as defined in the Public Health Response Order to pick someone up from an airport to pick someone up from managed isolation or quarantine (MIQ) — to pick someone up, you must have a formal letter from MIQ to leave New Zealand to provide urgent care for a child or a person in a critical or terminally ill condition to attend a Court, tribunal, New Zealand Parole Board hearing or another judicial institution. Permitted movement at Alert Level 4 Do not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are awaiting a COVID-19 test result. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary Non-essential travel, like travel to a second home or holiday home, is not allowed. If you travelled to a second home or bach, you will not be told to return home, however you must stay where you are until restrictions on travel have lifted. The safest place for whānau to be is at home. --- Section Separator --- If you are living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you have been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you have visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as most ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it is not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering If you are sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor to find out if you should get a test. If you are advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick --- Section Separator --- If you are living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2 for any reason, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you are sick, please do not travel at all — stay home and get tested. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and flights. There are exceptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear a face covering Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you do not know, where possible. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Travel across Alert Level boundaries is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across Alert Level boundaries needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the flight. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small plane or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. You legally must wear a face covering on the Cook Strait ferry. There are exceptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear a face covering Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you are allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. --- Section Separator --- Travel into, out of or through an Alert Level 3 area is restricted. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we can keep our loved ones and communities safe. Anyone wanting to travel across an Alert Level boundary needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary At Alert Level 3 you can only travel locally, and for allowed reasons. For example, going to work or school if you must, or for shopping or to get exercise. Travelling on public transport Travelling in a private vehicle --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 4, travel is strictly limited. Air travel will be used only to transport: people travelling home in the first 48 hours after the move to Alert Level 4 people undertaking Alert Level 4 services freight, or for other permitted reasons. Other permitted reasons include: to do necessary work as defined in the Public Health Response Order to pick someone up from an airport to pick someone up from managed isolation or quarantine (MIQ) — to pick someone up, you must have a formal letter from MIQ to leave New Zealand to provide urgent care for a child or a person in a critical or terminally ill condition to attend a Court, tribunal, New Zealand Parole Board hearing or another judicial institution. Permitted movement at Alert Level 4 Do not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are awaiting a COVID-19 test result. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary Non-essential travel, like travel to a second home or holiday home, is not allowed. If you travelled to a second home or bach, you will not be told to return home, however you must stay where you are until restrictions on travel have lifted. The safest place for whānau to be is at home. --- Section Separator --- Public transport Private vehicles Regional travel Walking, cycling and other active travel Permitted travel at different Alert Levels
Home Travel Domestic travel Private vehicles --- Section Separator --- Help limit the spread of any virus by staying at home if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If that is not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit your vehicle. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, stay at home. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. Do not travel to events that do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, stay at home. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. What to do at Alert Level 2 Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across Alert Level boundaries needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area, for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. You can travel in a private car only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school, but only if you cannot work or learn at home low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for businesses and services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, stay at home. We recommend you only travel in your car with people from your bubble. Practise good hygiene habits. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Do not travel across an Alert Level boundary, unless your travel is permitted or you have an exemption. Personal and business travel permissions for crossing an Alert Level boundary Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. What to do at Alert Level 3 Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel into, through or out of an Alert Level 3 area needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Regional travel Using private vehicles for transport is allowed for essential personal movement. You should not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You should only travel in your car with people from your household bubble. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Permitted movement at Alert Level 4 What to do at Alert Level 4 Alert Level boundary map Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary Non-essential travel, like travel to a second home or holiday home, is not allowed. If you travelled to a second home or bach, you will not be told to return home, however you must stay where you are until restrictions on travel have lifted. The safest place for whānau to be is at home. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work, you can use a private car to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can prove you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: your name that you are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service, and your destination. Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 | transport.govt.nz (external link) You can use any travel method to get to your COVID-19 vaccine appointments. If someone in your household bubble needs help to travel for essential personal movement, you can travel with them. You can travel with them by any method, like public transport, taxis or ride-shares, or private car. Regional travel at Alert Level 4 If you are unwell and you need to travel, you should use private transport where possible. If private transport is not available, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. For information about getting a warrant of fitness (WoF), driver licence or vehicle licence (rego) at Alert Level 4, visit the Waka Kotahi — NZ Transport Agency website. Vehicle inspection — Waka Kotahi (external link) --- Section Separator --- Help limit the spread of any virus by staying at home if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If that is not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit your vehicle. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, stay at home. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. Do not travel to events that do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, stay at home. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. What to do at Alert Level 2 Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across Alert Level boundaries needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area, for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. You can travel in a private car only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school, but only if you cannot work or learn at home low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for businesses and services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, stay at home. We recommend you only travel in your car with people from your bubble. Practise good hygiene habits. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Do not travel across an Alert Level boundary, unless your travel is permitted or you have an exemption. Personal and business travel permissions for crossing an Alert Level boundary Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. What to do at Alert Level 3 Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel into, through or out of an Alert Level 3 area needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level 4 and 3 boundary Regional travel --- Section Separator --- Using private vehicles for transport is allowed for essential personal movement. You should not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You should only travel in your car with people from your household bubble. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Permitted movement at Alert Level 4 What to do at Alert Level 4 Alert Level boundary map Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary Non-essential travel, like travel to a second home or holiday home, is not allowed. If you travelled to a second home or bach, you will not be told to return home, however you must stay where you are until restrictions on travel have lifted. The safest place for whānau to be is at home. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work, you can use a private car to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can prove you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: your name that you are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service, and your destination. Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 | transport.govt.nz (external link) You can use any travel method to get to your COVID-19 vaccine appointments. If someone in your household bubble needs help to travel for essential personal movement, you can travel with them. You can travel with them by any method, like public transport, taxis or ride-shares, or private car. Regional travel at Alert Level 4 If you are unwell and you need to travel, you should use private transport where possible. If private transport is not available, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. For information about getting a warrant of fitness (WoF), driver licence or vehicle licence (rego) at Alert Level 4, visit the Waka Kotahi — NZ Transport Agency website. Vehicle inspection — Waka Kotahi (external link) --- Section Separator --- Public transport Private vehicles Regional travel Walking, cycling and other active travel Permitted travel at different Alert Levels
Home Travel Domestic travel Public transport --- Section Separator --- 6 October 2021: We updated this page to remove the requirement for passengers to be seated on public transport at Alert Level 2. Everyone 12 years and older legally must wear a face covering on public transport at all Alert Levels. Drivers of taxi and ride-share services legally must wear face coverings. Passengers of taxi and ride-share services legally must wear a face covering at Alert Level 2 and above, but are only encouraged at Alert Level 1. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Face covering exemptions for some people and services However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit public transport. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. We recommend you do not use public transport if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Always wear a face covering on public transport and domestic flights, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Drivers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering, and passengers are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering too. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. Do not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. You should not use public transport if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Always wear a face covering on public transport and domestic flights, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you have been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Remember to be kind and respectful to drivers and your fellow passengers. Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland If you are healthy and do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-share services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Apart from the driver only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Drivers and passengers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You can take a domestic flight anywhere in New Zealand at Alert Level 1 or 2. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the flight. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Keep a record of your journey. Always wear a face covering, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. If you need to cross an Alert Level boundary, you need to check if you are permitted to travel. Travel across Alert Level boundaries You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Keep a record of your journey. Always wear a face covering, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you are allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 2, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across Alert Level boundaries needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. To help achieve physical distancing, numbers of people on public transport are limited. You must be seated when you are on public transport — the service will not be able to carry passengers who are standing. This rule does not apply to: dedicated school buses the Cook Strait Ferry. If you think your service may be full, you could plan your journey to travel later or earlier than your usual time. it is a good idea to speak with your employer to see if you can change your work hours, or work flexibly. Remember to be kind and respectful to drivers and your fellow passengers. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use public transport for only the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. We recommend you do not use public transport if you are unwell. Always wear a face covering on public transport, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Do not travel across an Alert Level boundary, unless your travel is permitted or you have an exemption Personal and business travel permissions for crossing an Alert Level boundary Apart from the driver, only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Drivers and passengers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-share services for only the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 3, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across an Alert Level boundary needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel You can use public transport for essential personal movement. This includes taxis and rideshares. We recommend you do not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You must keep 1 metre apart from everyone on public transport and at transport stations, where possible. There are some situations where this is not possible, for example in a taxi or ride-share. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Always wear a face covering on public transport, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in with the NZ COVID Tracer app or keep a record of which service you travel. To help achieve physical distancing, numbers of people on public transport are limited. You must be seated when you are on public transport — the service will not be able to carry passengers who are standing. This rule does not apply to: dedicated school buses the Cook Strait Ferry. If you think your service may be full, you could plan your journey to travel later or earlier than your usual time. it is a good idea to speak with your employer to see if you can change your work hours, or work flexibly. Remember to be kind and respectful to drivers and your fellow passengers. Permitted movement at Alert Level 4 Non-essential travel, like travel to a second home or holiday home, is not allowed. If you travelled to a second home or bach, you will not be told to return home, however you must stay where you are until restrictions on travel have lifted. The safest place for whānau to be is at home. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work, you can use public transport to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can show you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: your name that you are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service, and your destination. Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 You can use any travel method to get to your COVID-19 vaccine appointments. If someone in your household bubble needs help to travel for essential personal movement, you can travel with them. You can travel with them by any method, like public transport, taxis or ride-shares, or private car. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel If you are unwell and you need to travel, you should use private transport if possible. If private transport is not available, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. --- Section Separator --- 6 October 2021: We updated this page to remove the requirement for passengers to be seated on public transport at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Everyone 12 years and older legally must wear a face covering on public transport at all Alert Levels. Drivers of taxi and ride-share services legally must wear face coverings. Passengers of taxi and ride-share services legally must wear a face covering at Alert Level 2 and above, but are only encouraged at Alert Level 1. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. Face covering exemptions for some people and services However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit public transport. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. We recommend you do not use public transport if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Always wear a face covering on public transport and domestic flights, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Drivers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering, and passengers are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering too. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. Do not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. You should not use public transport if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Always wear a face covering on public transport and domestic flights, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you have been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Remember to be kind and respectful to drivers and your fellow passengers. Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland If you are healthy and do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-share services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Apart from the driver only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Drivers and passengers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You can take a domestic flight anywhere in New Zealand at Alert Level 1 or 2. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the flight. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Keep a record of your journey. Always wear a face covering, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. If you need to cross an Alert Level boundary, you need to check if you are permitted to travel. Travel across Alert Level boundaries You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Keep a record of your journey. Always wear a face covering, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you are allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 2, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across Alert Level boundaries needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is restricted and only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school if you need to, shopping or getting exercise. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. To help achieve physical distancing, numbers of people on public transport are limited. You must be seated when you are on public transport — the service will not be able to carry passengers who are standing. This rule does not apply to: dedicated school buses the Cook Strait Ferry. If you think your service may be full, you could plan your journey to travel later or earlier than your usual time. it is a good idea to speak with your employer to see if you can change your work hours, or work flexibly. Remember to be kind and respectful to drivers and your fellow passengers. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use public transport for only the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. We recommend you do not use public transport if you are unwell. Always wear a face covering on public transport, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in or keep a record of which service you travel. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Do not travel across an Alert Level boundary, unless your travel is permitted or you have an exemption Personal and business travel permissions for crossing an Alert Level boundary Apart from the driver, only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Drivers and passengers of taxis and ride-share servic es legally must wear a face covering. Drivers legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-share services for only the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 3, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Travel between Alert Level areas is strictly limited. Anyone wanting to travel across an Alert Level boundary needs to check whether they are permitted to do so. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel --- Section Separator --- You can use public transport for essential personal movement. This includes taxis and rideshares. We recommend you do not travel if you: have been requested to self-isolate have symptoms of COVID-19 are waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You must keep 1 metre apart from everyone on public transport and at transport stations, where possible. There are some situations where this is not possible, for example in a taxi or ride-share. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. Always wear a face covering on public transport, unless you have an exemption. Face covering exemptions for some people and services Practise good hygiene habits. Scan in with the NZ COVID Tracer app or keep a record of which service you travel. To help achieve physical distancing, numbers of people on public transport are limited. You must be seated when you are on public transport — the service will not be able to carry passengers who are standing. This rule does not apply to: dedicated school buses the Cook Strait Ferry. If you think your service may be full, you could plan your journey to travel later or earlier than your usual time. it is a good idea to speak with your employer to see if you can change your work hours, or work flexibly. Remember to be kind and respectful to drivers and your fellow passengers. Permitted movement at Alert Level 4 Non-essential travel, like travel to a second home or holiday home, is not allowed. If you travelled to a second home or bach, you will not be told to return home, however you must stay where you are until restrictions on travel have lifted. The safest place for whānau to be is at home. If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work, you can use public transport to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can show you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: your name that you are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service, and your destination. Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 You can use any travel method to get to your COVID-19 vaccine appointments. If someone in your household bubble needs help to travel for essential personal movement, you can travel with them. You can travel with them by any method, like public transport, taxis or ride-shares, or private car. Alert Level boundary map Personal travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Business travel permissions over an Alert Level boundary Regional travel If you are unwell and you need to travel, you should use private transport if possible. If private transport is not available, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. --- Section Separator --- Public transport Private vehicles Regional travel Walking, cycling and other active travel Permitted travel at different Alert Levels
Home Travel Domestic travel Walking, cycling and other active travel --- Section Separator --- Personal walks and other active travel like cycling or scootering are fine, as long as you keep 2 metres away from anyone not in your household bubble. You can use shared bicycles or scooters. Full list of reasons to travel at Alert Level 4 | transport.govt.nz (external link) Stick to simple outdoor exercise and avoid areas where you can get injured or lost. It is important emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. If you are unwell, stay at home. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Sports and recreation at Alert Level 4 If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work, you can walk, cycle or use other active travel like scooters to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can prove you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: your name that you are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service, and your destination. Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 | transport.govt.nz (external link) You can use any travel method to get to your COVID-19 vaccine appointments. --- Section Separator --- Personal walks and other active travel like cycling or scootering are fine, as long as you keep 2 metres away from anyone not in your household bubble. You can use shared bicycles or scooters. Full list of reasons to travel at Alert Level 4 | transport.govt.nz (external link) Stick to simple outdoor exercise and avoid areas where you can get injured or lost. It is important emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. If you are unwell, stay at home. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Practise good hygiene habits. Do not travel if you have been asked to self-isolate. Even if you have been vaccinated, you still need to follow the rules to keep everyone safe. Sports and recreation at Alert Level 4 If you are an Alert Level 4 worker and you are permitted to leave home to work, you can walk, cycle or use other active travel like scooters to get there. You may be asked to show who you work for so you can prove you have a reason to travel. We recommend your employer provide you with a letter to confirm: your name that you are providing an Alert Level 4 business or service, and your destination. Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 | transport.govt.nz (external link) You can use any travel method to get to your COVID-19 vaccine appointments. --- Section Separator --- Public transport Private vehicles Regional travel Walking, cycling and other active travel Permitted travel at different Alert Levels
Home Travel Foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can use international air services to travel home. However, there may be limited options available. If you cannot secure a ticket, contact your country’s high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. You may be required to self-isolate or enter managed isolation when you arrive, so it is best to check it now. Embassies will be able to help you find information. You may find that you are not allowed to transit through certain countries. Embassies will be able to help you. Even if you did not book your travel through a travel agent, they can let you know what is happening with your flight, or how to book a flight. Use airline and airport websites to check your flight. Airline schedules have been disrupted so check that your flight is going ahead as scheduled. Airline staff at airports are very busy trying to assist travellers, so make sure you book your flight before you arrive at the airport. Do not turn up at the airport more than 3 hours before departure. You are responsible for understanding how to meet the conditions of your visa in New Zealand at all times. Verify the details of current New Zealand visas | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Immigration NZ provides information on visa extensions, new visa expiry dates and changes to visa conditions. Visit the Immigration NZ website to check information about your visa. Visa extensions and visa conditions | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand | mfat.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can use international air services to travel home. However, there may be limited options available. If you cannot secure a ticket, contact your country’s high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. You may be required to self-isolate or enter managed isolation when you arrive, so it is best to check it now. Embassies will be able to help you find information. You may find that you are not allowed to transit through certain countries. Embassies will be able to help you. Even if you did not book your travel through a travel agent, they can let you know what is happening with your flight, or how to book a flight. Use airline and airport websites to check your flight. Airline schedules have been disrupted so check that your flight is going ahead as scheduled. Airline staff at airports are very busy trying to assist travellers, so make sure you book your flight before you arrive at the airport. Do not turn up at the airport more than 3 hours before departure. --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for understanding how to meet the conditions of your visa in New Zealand at all times. Verify the details of current New Zealand visas | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Immigration NZ provides information on visa extensions, new visa expiry dates and changes to visa conditions. Visit the Immigration NZ website to check information about your visa. Visa extensions and visa conditions | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find an embassy or foreign representative to New Zealand | mfat.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Permitted travel at different Alert Levels Domestic travel Quarantine-free travel International travel and transit Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World Signs and posters for travelling safely
Entry to New Zealand is strictly controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) is an important part of our border measures to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. Travel from 'very high risk' countries to New Zealand is currently restricted. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. You may be asked to complete the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals if you have recently arrived in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Entry to New Zealand is strictly controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) is an important part of our border measures to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. Travel from 'very high risk' countries to New Zealand is currently restricted. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. You may be asked to complete the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals if you have recently arrived in New Zealand.
Home Travel International travel and transit Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — for all destinations except the Cook Islands. For the Cook Islands, the New Zealand Government advises you to “exercise increased caution”. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand When you are vaccinated in New Zealand, you get a purple vaccination card. These cards have basic information about your vaccination appointment, but they may not be recognised as proof of your vaccination by overseas countries. If you need written confirmation of your COVID-19 vaccination for international travel, you can request a letter from the Ministry of Health. Make sure you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to and find out what vaccination proof they need. Request proof of vaccination (external link) New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with Australia and the Cook Islands. Due to the recent community outbreak, quarantine-free travel to Australia and the Cook Islands is paused. Quarantine-free travel with the Cook Islands New Zealand safe travel zone | homeaffairs.gov.au (external link) Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your doctor. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your doctor or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — for all destinations except the Cook Islands. For the Cook Islands, the New Zealand Government advises you to “exercise increased caution”. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas --- Section Separator --- If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- When you are vaccinated in New Zealand, you get a purple vaccination card. These cards have basic information about your vaccination appointment, but they may not be recognised as proof of your vaccination by overseas countries. If you need written confirmation of your COVID-19 vaccination for international travel, you can request a letter from the Ministry of Health. Make sure you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to and find out what vaccination proof they need. Request proof of vaccination (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with Australia and the Cook Islands. Due to the recent community outbreak, quarantine-free travel to Australia and the Cook Islands is paused. Quarantine-free travel with the Cook Islands New Zealand safe travel zone | homeaffairs.gov.au (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your doctor. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your doctor or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) --- Section Separator --- Almost all travellers are legally required to have a voucher confirming their place in MIQ before boarding their flight. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. If you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to book your voucher and complete 14 days in our MIQ facilities. By completing 14 days in MIQ, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. Over 160,000 people have completed their MIQ stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in an MIQ facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you are flying quarantine-free to New Zealand, then you will not enter MIQ and so you do not need a voucher. How you get your voucher has changed. Now, you enter a virtual lobby up to 1 hour before room release. Everyone in the lobby has an equal chance of securing a room. Once the room release starts, everyone in the lobby will be moved into a queue. Your place in the queue is random. This means you do not need to keep refreshing your web browser, and you do not need to be the fastest to secure a room. MIQ will announce room releases at least 24 to 48 hours before they become available. How to get your voucher| miq.govt.nz (external link) About the virtual lobby | miq.govt.nz (external link) Get your voucher (external link) The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The MIQ website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests | miq.govt.nz (external link) You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in MIQ. The Government recovers some of the costs for MIQ. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for MIQ, and who needs to pay | miq.govt.nz (external link) Most people will be tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of their stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You may be asked to remain in your room until the result of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight into a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your managed isolation facility to complete the rest of your stay. You will be tested for COVID-19 again around day 3 and day 12 of your stay. If you are on the same floor, and in the vicinity of a confirmed day 0/1 or day 3 case of COVID-19, you will also be tested at day 6 or 7. This is an additional test, introduced from 25 August. When you arrive in New Zealand you are checked for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. Exemptions from managed isolation are approved in very few circumstances. Applications for exemptions are considered on a case-by-case basis and the threshold for approval is very high. An exemption will only be approved where we can be confident that the health risk of transmission is very low. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply Apply for an exemption from staying in MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Almost all travellers are legally required to have a voucher confirming their place in MIQ before boarding their flight. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. If you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to book your voucher and complete 14 days in our MIQ facilities. By completing 14 days in MIQ, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. Over 160,000 people have completed their MIQ stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. --- Section Separator --- You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in an MIQ facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you are flying quarantine-free to New Zealand, then you will not enter MIQ and so you do not need a voucher. --- Section Separator --- How you get your voucher has changed. Now, you enter a virtual lobby up to 1 hour before room release. Everyone in the lobby has an equal chance of securing a room. Once the room release starts, everyone in the lobby will be moved into a queue. Your place in the queue is random. This means you do not need to keep refreshing your web browser, and you do not need to be the fastest to secure a room. MIQ will announce room releases at least 24 to 48 hours before they become available. How to get your voucher| miq.govt.nz (external link) About the virtual lobby | miq.govt.nz (external link) Get your voucher (external link) --- Section Separator --- The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The MIQ website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in MIQ. The Government recovers some of the costs for MIQ. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for MIQ, and who needs to pay | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people will be tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of their stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You may be asked to remain in your room until the result of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight into a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your managed isolation facility to complete the rest of your stay. You will be tested for COVID-19 again around day 3 and day 12 of your stay. If you are on the same floor, and in the vicinity of a confirmed day 0/1 or day 3 case of COVID-19, you will also be tested at day 6 or 7. This is an additional test, introduced from 25 August. --- Section Separator --- When you arrive in New Zealand you are checked for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. --- Section Separator --- There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. Exemptions from managed isolation are approved in very few circumstances. Applications for exemptions are considered on a case-by-case basis and the threshold for approval is very high. An exemption will only be approved where we can be confident that the health risk of transmission is very low. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply Apply for an exemption from staying in MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Survey of New Zealand Arrivals --- Section Separator --- Get the results for arrivals from 1 August 2020 to 9 January 2021 We are undertaking a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals is collecting information to help inform government policy. It does not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) The COVID-19 Group, which is part of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) are leading the survey. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd has been contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. You will be invited to do the survey if you have recently arrived in New Zealand and you are 18 or over. You will be contacted by email. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you are a recent arrival to New Zealand. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd will be given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. They will hold your contact details for up to 4 months, before deleting them. You can choose if you want to complete the survey, and you can withdraw at any time without having to give a reason. The survey will take about 12 minutes to complete, and you can do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. You do not need to prepare anything before you complete the survey. If you are having trouble getting the survey link to open, or having other technical difficulties, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz Your answers will be combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agree to take part in further research, your contact details will be sent to the research team at MBIE. The information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after it has sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) You can request a copy of your survey answers. You can also ask for them to be corrected, but you need to do this in the same calendar month that you complete the survey. Request a copy of your answers by emailing Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz MBIE has published the provisional results for arrivals into New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 9 January 2021. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collects data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border closures. Results from Survey of New Zealand Arrivals for 1 August 2020 to 9 January 2021 [PDF, 895 KB] MBIE will publish the survey results for those people arriving between 10 January and 14 April 2021 when it’s available. --- Section Separator --- Get the results for arrivals from 1 August 2020 to 9 January 2021 --- Section Separator --- We are undertaking a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals is collecting information to help inform government policy. It does not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Group, which is part of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) are leading the survey. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd has been contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. --- Section Separator --- You will be invited to do the survey if you have recently arrived in New Zealand and you are 18 or over. You will be contacted by email. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you are a recent arrival to New Zealand. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd will be given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. They will hold your contact details for up to 4 months, before deleting them. You can choose if you want to complete the survey, and you can withdraw at any time without having to give a reason. --- Section Separator --- The survey will take about 12 minutes to complete, and you can do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. You do not need to prepare anything before you complete the survey. If you are having trouble getting the survey link to open, or having other technical difficulties, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz --- Section Separator --- Your answers will be combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agree to take part in further research, your contact details will be sent to the research team at MBIE. The information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after it has sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) You can request a copy of your survey answers. You can also ask for them to be corrected, but you need to do this in the same calendar month that you complete the survey. Request a copy of your answers by emailing Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz --- Section Separator --- If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- MBIE has published the provisional results for arrivals into New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 9 January 2021. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collects data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border closures. Results from Survey of New Zealand Arrivals for 1 August 2020 to 9 January 2021 [PDF, 895 KB] --- Section Separator --- MBIE will publish the survey results for those people arriving between 10 January and 14 April 2021 when it’s available. --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Some people do not need an NZeTA or transit visa. Immigration NZ explains who can transit through New Zealand, and who needs an NZeTA or transit visa. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Currently, you cannot transit New Zealand on your way to or from Australia. If you arrive in New Zealand on a non-quarantine-free flight, you must spend 14 days in a managed isolation or quarantine (MIQ) facility before you can travel on to Australia. If you arrive in New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, for example from the Cook Islands, you still must spend 14 days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey to Australia. Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you’re entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. What you need to do depends on if you’re entering New Zealand: for 24 to 72 hours, or for longer than 72 hours, but less than 14 days. What to do if you’re staying in NZ longer than 24 hours | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you’re transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you’re travelling though and your final destination. You cannot transit New Zealand if you do not meet all the requirements of your final destination. --- Section Separator --- If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Some people do not need an NZeTA or transit visa. Immigration NZ explains who can transit through New Zealand, and who needs an NZeTA or transit visa. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Currently, you cannot transit New Zealand on your way to or from Australia. If you arrive in New Zealand on a non-quarantine-free flight, you must spend 14 days in a managed isolation or quarantine (MIQ) facility before you can travel on to Australia. If you arrive in New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, for example from the Cook Islands, you still must spend 14 days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey to Australia. Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) --- Section Separator --- Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. What you need to do depends on if you’re entering New Zealand: for 24 to 72 hours, or for longer than 72 hours, but less than 14 days. What to do if you’re staying in NZ longer than 24 hours | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you’re transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you’re travelling though and your final destination. You cannot transit New Zealand if you do not meet all the requirements of your final destination. --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Travel restrictions for very high risk countries --- Section Separator --- The Government has created a ‘very high risk’ country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Brazil Fiji India Indonesia Pakistan Papua New Guinea We added Fiji and Indonesia to this list on 11 August. Travel will be restricted from Fiji and Indonesia from 11:59pm (NZT) on 15 August 2021. Travellers to New Zealand from very high risk countries are temporarily restricted to: New Zealand citizens partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, or parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens, together with any children of those parents who are not New Zealand citizens. Dependent children are children under 18 years old. Partners of New Zealand citizens can be a spouse, civil union partner or de facto partner. If you are a non-New Zealand citizen, you must hold a valid visa to enter New Zealand. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ (external link) All other travellers, including people holding residence class visas, must spend at least 14 days outside of very high risk countries before flying to New Zealand. You can transit through a very high risk country without having to spend 14 days outside the country before you travel to New Zealand. There is no limit on the amount of time you may spend transiting through a very high risk country, but you must stay airside. This means you will stay at the airport and not enter the country. All travellers from Fiji can transit New Zealand to other countries. You must stay airside, which means you will stay at the airport and not enter the country. You must spend less than 24 hours in transit in New Zealand. All travellers from very high risk countries (except Fiji) must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test result from a government-approved laboratory. The test must be taken within 72 hours of departure. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand The Ministry of Health publishes lists of laboratories in very high risk countries that are approved to conduct COVID-19 tests. Lists of approved laboratories (external link) Travellers from Fiji do not need to get pre-departure tests. This is because it is not easy to access tests and there are delays in receiving results. The Director-General of Health may grant exemptions for humanitarian reasons. You can find out more about the exemptions process at the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an exemption (external link) The Government considers the following factors, among others, when deciding to designate a country as very high risk: Whether cases in the country are rising rapidly and the predominant strain, for example the Delta variant. The level of confidence in the country’s testing and other public health measures, such as vaccination coverage rates. The risk to New Zealand's borders. Resurgence of COVID-19 is happening in a number of countries, and there are further waves of infections in many countries as new variants of the COVID-19 virus arise. This means New Zealand expects to see more returnees with COVID-19 from these areas. This increase in cases will place pressure on our managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) systems and increase the risk of a community outbreak. This is particularly important as countries deal with the Delta variant of COVID-19. The New Zealand Government has responded by creating a very high risk country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The Government will review this decision regularly. If you are a New Zealander in a very high risk country, make sure you register your travel and contact details with SafeTravel. Register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the country you're in (external link) In the 14 days before leaving there are things you can do to help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it to New Zealand with you: Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. We added information in Fijian and Indonesian and updated the other languages on 11 August 2021. We added information in Tok Pisin on 12 August. --- Section Separator --- The Government has created a ‘very high risk’ country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Brazil Fiji India Indonesia Pakistan Papua New Guinea We added Fiji and Indonesia to this list on 11 August. Travel will be restricted from Fiji and Indonesia from 11:59pm (NZT) on 15 August 2021. --- Section Separator --- Travellers to New Zealand from very high risk countries are temporarily restricted to: New Zealand citizens partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, or parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens, together with any children of those parents who are not New Zealand citizens. Dependent children are children under 18 years old. Partners of New Zealand citizens can be a spouse, civil union partner or de facto partner. If you are a non-New Zealand citizen, you must hold a valid visa to enter New Zealand. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ (external link) All other travellers, including people holding residence class visas, must spend at least 14 days outside of very high risk countries before flying to New Zealand. You can transit through a very high risk country without having to spend 14 days outside the country before you travel to New Zealand. There is no limit on the amount of time you may spend transiting through a very high risk country, but you must stay airside. This means you will stay at the airport and not enter the country. All travellers from Fiji can transit New Zealand to other countries. You must stay airside, which means you will stay at the airport and not enter the country. You must spend less than 24 hours in transit in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- All travellers from very high risk countries (except Fiji) must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test result from a government-approved laboratory. The test must be taken within 72 hours of departure. Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand The Ministry of Health publishes lists of laboratories in very high risk countries that are approved to conduct COVID-19 tests. Lists of approved laboratories (external link) Travellers from Fiji do not need to get pre-departure tests. This is because it is not easy to access tests and there are delays in receiving results. --- Section Separator --- The Director-General of Health may grant exemptions for humanitarian reasons. You can find out more about the exemptions process at the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an exemption (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Government considers the following factors, among others, when deciding to designate a country as very high risk: Whether cases in the country are rising rapidly and the predominant strain, for example the Delta variant. The level of confidence in the country’s testing and other public health measures, such as vaccination coverage rates. The risk to New Zealand's borders. --- Section Separator --- Resurgence of COVID-19 is happening in a number of countries, and there are further waves of infections in many countries as new variants of the COVID-19 virus arise. This means New Zealand expects to see more returnees with COVID-19 from these areas. This increase in cases will place pressure on our managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) systems and increase the risk of a community outbreak. This is particularly important as countries deal with the Delta variant of COVID-19. The New Zealand Government has responded by creating a very high risk country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The Government will review this decision regularly. --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealander in a very high risk country, make sure you register your travel and contact details with SafeTravel. Register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the country you're in (external link) In the 14 days before leaving there are things you can do to help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it to New Zealand with you: Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. --- Section Separator --- We added information in Fijian and Indonesian and updated the other languages on 11 August 2021. We added information in Tok Pisin on 12 August. --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. The travel restrictions apply to all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. Check your eligibility to travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. Travel from very high risk countries is temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. Travel restrictions for very high risk countries You may be able to travel to New Zealand while the border is closed if we consider you have a critical purpose to travel. Critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Most people who are not New Zealand citizens or residents legally must get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to request to travel. Information from Immigration NZ: Immigration during COVID-19 (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements (external link) New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries. Travelling quarantine-free means you do not have to enter managed isolation. Normal immigration rules apply for quarantine-free travel. Travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from some countries There are exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector | health.govt.nz (external link) Travel from very high risk countries is temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Brazil Fiji India Indonesia Pakistan Papua New Guinea Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Most people must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test result before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to get pre-departure tests. Requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you need to be vaccinated for COVID-19 before flying to New Zealand from 1 November 2021. New Zealand permanent residents and temporary visa holders are not New Zealand citizens, and so need to be vaccinated before travel. You must still have the right to enter New Zealand. The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand (external link) You will need to declare you have been vaccinated when you book your place in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) You need to be fully vaccinated. This means you need to have had a full course of any of the 22 COVID-19 vaccines that have been approved by a government or approval authority. You need to have had the last dose at least 14 days before you arrive in New Zealand. You do not need evidence of a vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen — New Zealand permanent residents and temporary visa holders are not New Zealand citizens are aged under 17 years, or cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. We will provide more information soon about acceptable evidence of your vaccination or medical exemption. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to have a negative pre-departure test result and spend 14 days in MIQ — unless you are exempt. It is important that people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you are returning to New Zealand, you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you are arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Who can request an emergency allocation and how to apply | miq.govt.nz (external link) Quarantine-free travel allows you to travel to and enter countries that are participating in a quarantine-free travel arrangement without needing to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive. You can travel to New Zealand quarantine-free from: the Cook Islands Niue Quarantine-free travel Quarantine-free travel from Australia to New Zealand is suspended from 11:59pm on 23 July 2021. RSE workers from Vanuatu, Samoa and Tonga can begin entering New Zealand under one-way quarantine-free travel. Workers from Vanuatu can arrive from 4 October 2021. Workers from Samoa and Tonga can arrive from 12 October 2021. Workers arriving under the scheme must: have at least 1 COVID-19 vaccine dose complete a period of self-isolation when they arrive return negative COVID-9 tests at day 0 and day 5. Employers must provide facilities for the workers to self-isolate in. Workers must also get their second COVID-19 vaccine dose after they arrive, if they do not have it already. Recognised Seasonal Employer (RSE) scheme | immigration.govt.nz (external link) International transit through New Zealand If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) Self-isolation is part of the Government’s plan for re-opening borders and allowing more people to visit and return home to New Zealand without the requirement to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). A self-isolation pilot over October and December 2021 will test some of the systems and processes that would be needed to roll out self-isolation more widely. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) will administer the pilot. Learn more about the self-isolation pilot (external link) Eligibility criteria and self-isolation requirements (external link) Expressions of interest for the pilot (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. The travel restrictions apply to all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. Check your eligibility to travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. Travel from very high risk countries is temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. Travel restrictions for very high risk countries You may be able to travel to New Zealand while the border is closed if we consider you have a critical purpose to travel. Critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Most people who are not New Zealand citizens or residents legally must get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to request to travel. Information from Immigration NZ: Immigration during COVID-19 (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements (external link) New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries. Travelling quarantine-free means you do not have to enter managed isolation. Normal immigration rules apply for quarantine-free travel. Travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from some countries There are exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel from very high risk countries is temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Brazil Fiji India Indonesia Pakistan Papua New Guinea Travel restrictions for very high risk countries --- Section Separator --- Most people must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test result before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to get pre-departure tests. Requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you need to be vaccinated for COVID-19 before flying to New Zealand from 1 November 2021. New Zealand permanent residents and temporary visa holders are not New Zealand citizens, and so need to be vaccinated before travel. You must still have the right to enter New Zealand. The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand (external link) You will need to declare you have been vaccinated when you book your place in managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) You need to be fully vaccinated. This means you need to have had a full course of any of the 22 COVID-19 vaccines that have been approved by a government or approval authority. You need to have had the last dose at least 14 days before you arrive in New Zealand. You do not need evidence of a vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen — New Zealand permanent residents and temporary visa holders are not New Zealand citizens are aged under 17 years, or cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. We will provide more information soon about acceptable evidence of your vaccination or medical exemption. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to have a negative pre-departure test result and spend 14 days in MIQ — unless you are exempt. --- Section Separator --- It is important that people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you are returning to New Zealand, you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you are arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Who can request an emergency allocation and how to apply | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel allows you to travel to and enter countries that are participating in a quarantine-free travel arrangement without needing to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive. You can travel to New Zealand quarantine-free from: the Cook Islands Niue Quarantine-free travel Quarantine-free travel from Australia to New Zealand is suspended from 11:59pm on 23 July 2021. RSE workers from Vanuatu, Samoa and Tonga can begin entering New Zealand under one-way quarantine-free travel. Workers from Vanuatu can arrive from 4 October 2021. Workers from Samoa and Tonga can arrive from 12 October 2021. Workers arriving under the scheme must: have at least 1 COVID-19 vaccine dose complete a period of self-isolation when they arrive return negative COVID-9 tests at day 0 and day 5. Employers must provide facilities for the workers to self-isolate in. Workers must also get their second COVID-19 vaccine dose after they arrive, if they do not have it already. Recognised Seasonal Employer (RSE) scheme | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- International transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation is part of the Government’s plan for re-opening borders and allowing more people to visit and return home to New Zealand without the requirement to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). A self-isolation pilot over October and December 2021 will test some of the systems and processes that would be needed to roll out self-isolation more widely. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) will administer the pilot. Learn more about the self-isolation pilot (external link) Eligibility criteria and self-isolation requirements (external link) Expressions of interest for the pilot (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Travel restrictions for very high risk countries Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel New Zealanders overseas --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. Consular staff in New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot book a space in MIQ or a flight to New Zealand for you. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. The travel restrictions apply to all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. Check your eligibility to travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. Travel from very high risk countries is temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. Travel restrictions for very high risk countries You may be able to travel to New Zealand while the border is closed if we consider you have a critical purpose to travel. Critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Most people who are not New Zealand citizens or residents legally must get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to request to travel. Information from Immigration NZ: Immigration during COVID-19 (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements (external link) New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries. Travelling quarantine-free means you do not have to enter managed isolation. Normal immigration rules apply for quarantine-free travel. Travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from some countries There are exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector | health.govt.nz (external link) Plan your travel to New Zealand It is important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you are returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you are arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The MIQ website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests | miq.govt.nz (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you are in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. Consular staff in New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot book a space in MIQ or a flight to New Zealand for you. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. The travel restrictions apply to all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. Check your eligibility to travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. Travel from very high risk countries is temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. Travel restrictions for very high risk countries You may be able to travel to New Zealand while the border is closed if we consider you have a critical purpose to travel. Critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Most people who are not New Zealand citizens or residents legally must get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to request to travel. Information from Immigration NZ: Immigration during COVID-19 (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements (external link) New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries. Travelling quarantine-free means you do not have to enter managed isolation. Normal immigration rules apply for quarantine-free travel. Travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from some countries There are exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Plan your travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- It is important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you are returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you are arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- The emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The MIQ website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you are in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Permitted travel at different Alert Levels Domestic travel Quarantine-free travel International travel and transit Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World Signs and posters for travelling safely
Northland will move to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Tuesday 19 October 2021. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 1. This will be reviewed on Monday 1 November 2021. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. This will be reviewed on Friday 22 October 2021. Advice for Northland Advice for Auckland Advice for Waikato --- Section Separator --- Refinements to this map are in development. This map is in beta, please provide any feedback via this form (external link) (external link) . --- Section Separator --- Personal and business travel across an Alert Level boundary is strictly limited. The Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across Alert Level boundaries if that travel is permitted. You also need to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. You can apply for an exemption if your reason to cross an Alert Level boundary is not permitted. You should stay home, unless it is essential to do otherwise. Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary Travelling into and out of Northland is a little more difficult while it shares a boundary with Auckland. Find out more about travelling into and out of Northland --- Section Separator --- Movement within the Alert Level 3 area is limited, except for permitted reasons. If you are leaving home for one of the permitted reasons, you do not require any other form of approval. You should carry some evidence of your reason to leave your home. Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Waka Kotahi’s Journey Planner uses the latest travel time information, traffic cameras, and updates on delays, roadworks and road closures to help you plan your journey. Use Journey Planner (external link) Journey Planner also provides updates on the latest traffic information at Alert Level 3 checkpoints. Find out the latest traffic information at the checkpoints (external link)
Home Travel Permitted travel at different Alert Levels Business travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- For those in the Waikato Alert Level area, the current travel restrictions in force at the Auckland boundary apply. However, the testing regime in place for travellers out of Auckland do not apply. Advice for Waikato Business or work travel across Alert Level boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the Alert Level boundary if that travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. The following reasons for business or work travel are permitted. You can travel in and out of the Waikato Alert Level 3 area for limited permitted reasons. This includes for work in permitted business and services. You can also cross into the Waikato Alert Level 3 area from an Alert Level 2 area to work in any business or service which is open in the Alert Level 3 area. But you cannot cross from the Waikato Alert Level 3 area to work in an Alert Level 2 area, except for work in permitted businesses and services. If you are travelling in and out of the Waikato Alert Level 3 area — other than across the boundary with Auckland — you are not required to provide evidence of a recent test. A formal business travel document is not required however we recommend you source a letter from your employer confirming place of work and need to travel. If your business travel across the boundary is permitted, you are already allowed to cross the boundary. You do not need to apply for an exemption to travel. Your employer needs to make sure: they have systems in place to ensure the least number of workers needing to travel do so they minimise the public health risks to anyone travelling as much as possible you have appropriate evidence to travel. You should have evidence to travel across the boundary The Business Travel Document can be used as evidence of your right to travel across the boundary. Having one makes crossing the boundary quicker and easier. Get your Business Travel Document (external link) Other evidence of your purpose of travel is also acceptable, for example, freight or delivery vehicles could provide delivery dockets. Find examples of evidence in the permitted travel section on this page. You should also have a form of photo ID. Every person travelling should carry evidence — you may not be able to cross the boundary if you do not have it. Make sure you have printed copies of your evidence, or electronic copies on your device. You cannot use Business Travel Documents from previous Alert Level lockdowns, for example from February 2021. You must register for new ones. If you are travelling to an area at a lower Alert Level, make sure you follow safety precautions if you stop, such as: wearing a face covering maintaining 2 metres physical distance from others regularly washing or sanitising your hands. Remember to keep a record of where you have stopped, using the NZ COVID Tracer app or a physical record. If your reason for travelling is not permitted but you think you have an essential reason to travel for work, you can apply for an exemption. Requests will need to meet criteria. Nominate an authorised person who will apply on behalf of the business. They should understand the business travel operations, like who needs to travel, which boundaries they need to cross and why their travel is essential. Employees cannot register. The authorised person needs to apply for them. Note that exemption applications will not be processed until a Health Order is in place. Apply for an exemption to cross the Alert Level boundary (external link) Travel across the Alert Level boundaries is restricted to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Workers who are moving around create more risk of transmission of the virus than people who are staying at home. This additional testing will provide assurance that travel is being done safely. The Government is introducing a requirement for most workers who need to cross Alert Level boundaries to get tested. Most employers of workers who need to cross Alert Level boundaries for work must have a process in place to allow workers to be tested for COVID-19. This includes allowing workers to undergo testing, medical examination, or both, during their work hours. Most workers crossing the Alert Level boundary must now carry: evidence that they have had a COVID-19 test (you do not need evidence of a negative result — you just need evidence you have been tested), or a medical certificate confirming they do not have COVID-19 symptoms and, for a particular physical or other need, are unable to have a COVID-19 test. Workers must get tested or be examined in the 7 days before they cross the Alert Level boundary. Workers also must still carry evidence of their reason to cross the Alert Level boundary, for example the Business Travel Document, work order or employer letter. There are police check points to stop unnecessary travel. There is no cost for workers who get a test for this purpose. Testing is available at community testing sites around Auckland or at GPs, and saliva testing is an option. Workers do not need to stay home or stay away from work while they wait for their test result. Find testing locations in your area | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Find out more about the testing options | health.govt.nz (external link) A text message that confirms completion of a test will be sent to the worker. This will be automatically generated at the location where the test was taken, and can be shown as evidence. Paper confirmation will also be available from testing centres that do not use the automated system, for example GP practices. This can also be shown as evidence of a test. If the worker has had an examination instead of a test, they must have an electronic or paper copy of the medical certificate. If you want to cross the boundary for personal reasons, you will need to check if your reason for travelling is permitted. Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary The information on this page is about permitted business travel across an Alert Level boundary. Find information about permitted movement within your Alert Level area: Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- For those in the Waikato Alert Level area, the current travel restrictions in force at the Auckland boundary apply. However, the testing regime in place for travellers out of Auckland do not apply. Advice for Waikato --- Section Separator --- Business or work travel across Alert Level boundaries is strictly limited. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we keep our loved ones and communities safe. You may only travel across the Alert Level boundary if that travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. --- Section Separator --- The following reasons for business or work travel are permitted. --- Section Separator --- You can travel in and out of the Waikato Alert Level 3 area for limited permitted reasons. This includes for work in permitted business and services. You can also cross into the Waikato Alert Level 3 area from an Alert Level 2 area to work in any business or service which is open in the Alert Level 3 area. But you cannot cross from the Waikato Alert Level 3 area to work in an Alert Level 2 area, except for work in permitted businesses and services. If you are travelling in and out of the Waikato Alert Level 3 area — other than across the boundary with Auckland — you are not required to provide evidence of a recent test. A formal business travel document is not required however we recommend you source a letter from your employer confirming place of work and need to travel. --- Section Separator --- If your business travel across the boundary is permitted, you are already allowed to cross the boundary. You do not need to apply for an exemption to travel. Your employer needs to make sure: they have systems in place to ensure the least number of workers needing to travel do so they minimise the public health risks to anyone travelling as much as possible you have appropriate evidence to travel. You should have evidence to travel across the boundary The Business Travel Document can be used as evidence of your right to travel across the boundary. Having one makes crossing the boundary quicker and easier. Get your Business Travel Document (external link) Other evidence of your purpose of travel is also acceptable, for example, freight or delivery vehicles could provide delivery dockets. Find examples of evidence in the permitted travel section on this page. You should also have a form of photo ID. Every person travelling should carry evidence — you may not be able to cross the boundary if you do not have it. Make sure you have printed copies of your evidence, or electronic copies on your device. You cannot use Business Travel Documents from previous Alert Level lockdowns, for example from February 2021. You must register for new ones. If you are travelling to an area at a lower Alert Level, make sure you follow safety precautions if you stop, such as: wearing a face covering maintaining 2 metres physical distance from others regularly washing or sanitising your hands. Remember to keep a record of where you have stopped, using the NZ COVID Tracer app or a physical record. --- Section Separator --- If your reason for travelling is not permitted but you think you have an essential reason to travel for work, you can apply for an exemption. Requests will need to meet criteria. Nominate an authorised person who will apply on behalf of the business. They should understand the business travel operations, like who needs to travel, which boundaries they need to cross and why their travel is essential. Employees cannot register. The authorised person needs to apply for them. Note that exemption applications will not be processed until a Health Order is in place. Apply for an exemption to cross the Alert Level boundary (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel across the Alert Level boundaries is restricted to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Workers who are moving around create more risk of transmission of the virus than people who are staying at home. This additional testing will provide assurance that travel is being done safely. The Government is introducing a requirement for most workers who need to cross Alert Level boundaries to get tested. Most employers of workers who need to cross Alert Level boundaries for work must have a process in place to allow workers to be tested for COVID-19. This includes allowing workers to undergo testing, medical examination, or both, during their work hours. Most workers crossing the Alert Level boundary must now carry: evidence that they have had a COVID-19 test (you do not need evidence of a negative result — you just need evidence you have been tested), or a medical certificate confirming they do not have COVID-19 symptoms and, for a particular physical or other need, are unable to have a COVID-19 test. Workers must get tested or be examined in the 7 days before they cross the Alert Level boundary. Workers also must still carry evidence of their reason to cross the Alert Level boundary, for example the Business Travel Document, work order or employer letter. There are police check points to stop unnecessary travel. There is no cost for workers who get a test for this purpose. Testing is available at community testing sites around Auckland or at GPs, and saliva testing is an option. Workers do not need to stay home or stay away from work while they wait for their test result. Find testing locations in your area | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Find out more about the testing options | health.govt.nz (external link) A text message that confirms completion of a test will be sent to the worker. This will be automatically generated at the location where the test was taken, and can be shown as evidence. Paper confirmation will also be available from testing centres that do not use the automated system, for example GP practices. This can also be shown as evidence of a test. If the worker has had an examination instead of a test, they must have an electronic or paper copy of the medical certificate. --- Section Separator --- If you want to cross the boundary for personal reasons, you will need to check if your reason for travelling is permitted. Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- The information on this page is about permitted business travel across an Alert Level boundary. Find information about permitted movement within your Alert Level area: Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Alert Level boundary map Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary
Home Travel Permitted travel at different Alert Levels Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Northland, Auckland and parts of Waikato are separate Alert Level 3 areas. There are separate Alert Level boundaries around Northland, Auckland, and parts of Waikato. This means that if you wish to travel into a different Alert Level 3 area your travel across the boundary must be permitted. Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary Alert Level boundary map This page lists permitted reasons for travel within an Alert Level 3 area. It tells you reasons for travel within Northland, Auckland, and within the parts of Waikato that are at Alert Level 3. This page does not list the permitted reasons to travel between the Alert Level 3 areas in Northland, Auckland and Waikato. Within an Alert Level 3 area, travel is allowed for permitted reasons. If you are leaving home for a permitted reason, you do not need any other form of approval. You should carry some evidence of your reason to leave your home, for example proof of address for both households if you are maintaining a shared childcare arrangement. You may be asked to show evidence of your reason for travel — if you cannot show it, you may be prevented from travelling by the travel operator or other authority. You should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice if you: have symptoms of COVID-19 have been in close contact with someone who tests positive for COVID-19. If you test positive for COVID-19 you must stay isolated and follow the advice from health officials. The purpose of Alert Levels 3 and 4 is to limit the movement of people to only that which is absolutely necessary. This helps to limit the spread of COVID-19 in the community. Please carefully review the list of permitted movements. You do not need to apply for an exemption if your reason to travel is for one of the permitted reasons. If your reason for personal travel is not already permitted, the Director-General of Health may grant individual exemptions to the Alert Level 3 or 4 restrictions. However, exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. To apply for an exemption for personal travel within an Alert Level region please visit the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an individual exemption (external link) The information on this page is about permitted movement within an Alert Level 3 area. Find out about travel permissions when crossing an Alert Level boundary: Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- Northland, Auckland and parts of Waikato are separate Alert Level 3 areas. There are separate Alert Level boundaries around Northland, Auckland, and parts of Waikato. This means that if you wish to travel into a different Alert Level 3 area your travel across the boundary must be permitted. Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary Alert Level boundary map This page lists permitted reasons for travel within an Alert Level 3 area. It tells you reasons for travel within Northland, Auckland, and within the parts of Waikato that are at Alert Level 3. This page does not list the permitted reasons to travel between the Alert Level 3 areas in Northland, Auckland and Waikato. --- Section Separator --- Within an Alert Level 3 area, travel is allowed for permitted reasons. If you are leaving home for a permitted reason, you do not need any other form of approval. You should carry some evidence of your reason to leave your home, for example proof of address for both households if you are maintaining a shared childcare arrangement. You may be asked to show evidence of your reason for travel — if you cannot show it, you may be prevented from travelling by the travel operator or other authority. You should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice if you: have symptoms of COVID-19 have been in close contact with someone who tests positive for COVID-19. If you test positive for COVID-19 you must stay isolated and follow the advice from health officials. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of Alert Levels 3 and 4 is to limit the movement of people to only that which is absolutely necessary. This helps to limit the spread of COVID-19 in the community. Please carefully review the list of permitted movements. You do not need to apply for an exemption if your reason to travel is for one of the permitted reasons. If your reason for personal travel is not already permitted, the Director-General of Health may grant individual exemptions to the Alert Level 3 or 4 restrictions. However, exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. To apply for an exemption for personal travel within an Alert Level region please visit the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an individual exemption (external link) --- Section Separator --- The information on this page is about permitted movement within an Alert Level 3 area. Find out about travel permissions when crossing an Alert Level boundary: Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- Alert Level boundary map Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary
Home Travel Permitted travel at different Alert Levels Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- If you are leaving home for one of the permitted reasons, you do not require any other form of approval. You should carry some evidence of your reason to leave your home. You may be asked to show evidence of your reason for travel — if you cannot provide it, you may be prevented from travelling by the operator or other authority. Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 — Ministry of Transport (external link) If you have symptoms of COVID-19, have been in close contact with someone who tests positive for COVID-19 or test positive for COVID-19, you should not leave home — even if it is permitted — and must self-isolate, and call Healthline for advice and get tested. The purpose of Alert Levels 3 and 4 is to limit the movement of people to only that which is absolutely necessary. This helps to limit the spread of COVID-19 in the community. Please carefully review the list of permitted movements. You do not need to apply for an exemption if your reason to travel is for one of the permitted reasons. If your reason for personal travel is not already permitted, the Director-General of Health may grant individual exemptions to the Alert Level 3 or 4 restrictions. However, exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. To apply for an exemption for personal travel within an Alert Level region please visit the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an individual exemption (external link) The information on this page is about permitted movement within an Alert Level 4 area. Find out about travel permissions when crossing an Alert Level boundary: Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- If you are leaving home for one of the permitted reasons, you do not require any other form of approval. You should carry some evidence of your reason to leave your home. You may be asked to show evidence of your reason for travel — if you cannot provide it, you may be prevented from travelling by the operator or other authority. Recommended evidence for travel at Alert Level 4 — Ministry of Transport (external link) If you have symptoms of COVID-19, have been in close contact with someone who tests positive for COVID-19 or test positive for COVID-19, you should not leave home — even if it is permitted — and must self-isolate, and call Healthline for advice and get tested. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of Alert Levels 3 and 4 is to limit the movement of people to only that which is absolutely necessary. This helps to limit the spread of COVID-19 in the community. Please carefully review the list of permitted movements. You do not need to apply for an exemption if your reason to travel is for one of the permitted reasons. If your reason for personal travel is not already permitted, the Director-General of Health may grant individual exemptions to the Alert Level 3 or 4 restrictions. However, exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. To apply for an exemption for personal travel within an Alert Level region please visit the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an individual exemption (external link) --- Section Separator --- The information on this page is about permitted movement within an Alert Level 4 area. Find out about travel permissions when crossing an Alert Level boundary: Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- Alert Level boundary map Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary
Home Travel Permitted travel at different Alert Levels Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary is strictly limited to minimise the spread of the virus. You can only travel across an Alert Level boundary for permitted reasons. There are 3 separate Alert Level boundaries around Northland, Auckland and parts of Waikato. Personal travel across these boundaries is limited to permitted reasons. If your reason to travel is permitted you can travel from an Alert Level 2 area into an Alert Level 3 area (and the other direction), or from one Alert Level 3 area to another. If your reason is not permitted, you cannot cross an Alert Level boundary. To cross an Alert Level boundary for a permitted reason, you are required to carry evidence with you. You may also need evidence of a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 72 hours before your travel, or evidence of a COVID-19 test taken no more than 7 days before your travel. Check the list of permitted travel. It will tell you if and when you need to get tested, and what evidence you need. Check if your travel is permitted You will need to apply for an exemption to cross an Alert 3 boundary to attend a funeral or tangihanga. That includes crossing from one Alert Level 3 area into another neighbouring Alert Level 3 area. Check the Alert Level boundary for defined Alert Level areas Exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. Apply for an exemption for personal travel if it is not permitted | health.govt.nz (external link) This may be a challenging time for you and your family. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. For support if you need to talk, you can call or text 1737. It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. Depending on the reason for your travel, you may need to get a test before crossing the boundary. Most people aged 12 and over need to get a test before crossing the boundary from Auckland, whether by land or air. You do not need to get tested when crossing the boundary one-way into Auckland, or if you travel from an Alert Level 2 area, through an Alert Level 3 area and into another Alert Level 2 area (when this is possible). There is an exception for people who travel into Auckland for a medical appointment (including vaccinations), and then leave to return home. They do not need a test when leaving Auckland. The evidence you need to carry depends on the reason for your travel. Some people do not need to be tested. Please note that you cannot get a saliva test for personal travel across the boundary. Check the list of permitted travel. Depending on your reason for travel, it will tell you if and when you need to get tested and what evidence you need to carry. Check if your travel is permitted, and whether you need a COVID-19 test Download a table that summarises the testing requirements for personal travel out of the Alert Level 3 area. Testing requirements when leaving the Alert Level 3 area for permitted personal travel [PDF, 125 KB] Check if your reason for travel is permitted: Check if your travel is permitted If your personal travel across the boundary is permitted, you are already allowed to cross the boundary. Do not apply for an exemption to travel, because you do not need one. You just need to make sure you have acceptable evidence to travel. If you are making a return trip, you will also need to carry evidence of where you live. Whether you are driving or flying across the boundary, you will be asked to show you have evidence to travel. At the airport and the road checkpoint, have your evidence ready as officials may ask to see it at any time. Find examples of acceptable evidence in the list of permitted travel. You must also have a form of photo ID. If you are travelling to an area at a lower Alert Level, make sure you follow safety precautions if you stop, such as: wearing a face covering maintaining 2 metres physical distance from others regularly washing or sanitising your hands. Remember to keep a record of where you have stopped, using the NZ COVID Tracer app or a physical record. If you have visited a location of interest or have COVID-19 symptoms, you should not travel. Instead, stay home and isolate from others, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting a test. You must check if your personal travel across the boundary is permitted. If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you need to apply for an exemption. Before applying for an exemption, you must be sure that: your need to travel across the boundary is urgent and cannot be delayed, and there is no one else (who does not need to cross the boundary) that can attend the event or perform the activity for you. However, exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. Apply for an individual exemption for personal travel (external link) If you want to cross the boundary for business or work reasons, you or your employer need to check if your reason for travelling is permitted. Business travel across an Alert Level boundary The information on this page is about permitted personal travel across an Alert Level boundary. Find information about permitted movement within your Alert Level area: Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Regional travel at Alert Level 3 Regional travel at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary is strictly limited to minimise the spread of the virus. You can only travel across an Alert Level boundary for permitted reasons. There are 3 separate Alert Level boundaries around Northland, Auckland and parts of Waikato. Personal travel across these boundaries is limited to permitted reasons. If your reason to travel is permitted you can travel from an Alert Level 2 area into an Alert Level 3 area (and the other direction), or from one Alert Level 3 area to another. If your reason is not permitted, you cannot cross an Alert Level boundary. To cross an Alert Level boundary for a permitted reason, you are required to carry evidence with you. You may also need evidence of a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 72 hours before your travel, or evidence of a COVID-19 test taken no more than 7 days before your travel. Check the list of permitted travel. It will tell you if and when you need to get tested, and what evidence you need. Check if your travel is permitted --- Section Separator --- You will need to apply for an exemption to cross an Alert 3 boundary to attend a funeral or tangihanga. That includes crossing from one Alert Level 3 area into another neighbouring Alert Level 3 area. Check the Alert Level boundary for defined Alert Level areas Exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. Apply for an exemption for personal travel if it is not permitted | health.govt.nz (external link) This may be a challenging time for you and your family. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. For support if you need to talk, you can call or text 1737. It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. --- Section Separator --- Depending on the reason for your travel, you may need to get a test before crossing the boundary. Most people aged 12 and over need to get a test before crossing the boundary from Auckland, whether by land or air. You do not need to get tested when crossing the boundary one-way into Auckland, or if you travel from an Alert Level 2 area, through an Alert Level 3 area and into another Alert Level 2 area (when this is possible). There is an exception for people who travel into Auckland for a medical appointment (including vaccinations), and then leave to return home. They do not need a test when leaving Auckland. The evidence you need to carry depends on the reason for your travel. Some people do not need to be tested. Please note that you cannot get a saliva test for personal travel across the boundary. Check the list of permitted travel. Depending on your reason for travel, it will tell you if and when you need to get tested and what evidence you need to carry. Check if your travel is permitted, and whether you need a COVID-19 test Download a table that summarises the testing requirements for personal travel out of the Alert Level 3 area. Testing requirements when leaving the Alert Level 3 area for permitted personal travel [PDF, 125 KB] --- Section Separator --- Check if your reason for travel is permitted: Check if your travel is permitted --- Section Separator --- If your personal travel across the boundary is permitted, you are already allowed to cross the boundary. Do not apply for an exemption to travel, because you do not need one. You just need to make sure you have acceptable evidence to travel. If you are making a return trip, you will also need to carry evidence of where you live. Whether you are driving or flying across the boundary, you will be asked to show you have evidence to travel. At the airport and the road checkpoint, have your evidence ready as officials may ask to see it at any time. Find examples of acceptable evidence in the list of permitted travel. You must also have a form of photo ID. If you are travelling to an area at a lower Alert Level, make sure you follow safety precautions if you stop, such as: wearing a face covering maintaining 2 metres physical distance from others regularly washing or sanitising your hands. Remember to keep a record of where you have stopped, using the NZ COVID Tracer app or a physical record. If you have visited a location of interest or have COVID-19 symptoms, you should not travel. Instead, stay home and isolate from others, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting a test. --- Section Separator --- You must check if your personal travel across the boundary is permitted. If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you need to apply for an exemption. Before applying for an exemption, you must be sure that: your need to travel across the boundary is urgent and cannot be delayed, and there is no one else (who does not need to cross the boundary) that can attend the event or perform the activity for you. However, exemptions are granted only in exceptional circumstances on a case-by-case basis, and only where this is consistent with the public health response to COVID-19. Apply for an individual exemption for personal travel (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you want to cross the boundary for business or work reasons, you or your employer need to check if your reason for travelling is permitted. Business travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- The information on this page is about permitted personal travel across an Alert Level boundary. Find information about permitted movement within your Alert Level area: Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Regional travel at Alert Level 3 Regional travel at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Alert Level boundary map Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary List of permitted personal travel across an Alert Level boundary List of permitted personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary
Home Travel Permitted travel at different Alert Levels Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary List of permitted personal travel across an Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- The permitted reasons for personal travel across the Alert Level boundary are listed on this page. Unless it says otherwise, you can travel across the boundary in either direction. If your reason for travel is listed on this page then you are already allowed to cross the boundary — you do not need to apply for an exemption. You just need to check whether you need a COVID-19 test, and what evidence you need to carry. What to do if your travel is permitted If your travel is not permitted — but you believe you need to cross the boundary — then you can apply for an exemption. How to apply for a personal travel exemption If you are looking for information about caring for children, check: Looking after others You can travel across the Alert Level boundary for work if that travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. Permitted business travel across the Alert Level boundary Permitted travel within an Alert Level 3 area --- Section Separator --- The permitted reasons for personal travel across the Alert Level boundary are listed on this page. Unless it says otherwise, you can travel across the boundary in either direction. If your reason for travel is listed on this page then you are already allowed to cross the boundary — you do not need to apply for an exemption. You just need to check whether you need a COVID-19 test, and what evidence you need to carry. What to do if your travel is permitted If your travel is not permitted — but you believe you need to cross the boundary — then you can apply for an exemption. How to apply for a personal travel exemption --- Section Separator --- If you are looking for information about caring for children, check: Looking after others --- Section Separator --- You can travel across the Alert Level boundary for work if that travel is permitted. Your employer also needs to make sure you have acceptable evidence that you are permitted to cross the boundary. Permitted business travel across the Alert Level boundary --- Section Separator --- Permitted travel within an Alert Level 3 area --- Section Separator --- Alert Level boundary map Permitted movement within Alert Level 3 Permitted movement within Alert Level 4 Personal travel across an Alert Level boundary List of permitted personal travel across an Alert Level boundary List of permitted personal travel across an Alert Level boundary Business travel across an Alert Level boundary
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands Find out about travelling quarantine-free between New Zealand and the Cook Islands. You may be interested in Travelling back to New Zealand after moving to Alert Level 4 Travel from NZ to the Cook Islands Travel from the Cook Islands to NZ How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- Travel from NZ to the Cook Islands Travel from the Cook Islands to NZ How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Cook Islands Paused From New Zealand to Cook Islands: Paused Cook Islands New Zealand Continues From Cook Islands to New Zealand: Continues There are no locations of interest in the Cook Islands. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand is paused. The Cook Islands Government has indicated that travel will remain paused until it is confident there is no community transmission in New Zealand. This will likely be when New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. If you are returning from the Cook Islands, you can travel home on a scheduled flight. You: cannot have been at a New Zealand location of interest, and cannot have COVID-19 symptoms. Please check Cook Islands COVID-19 Response (covid19.gov.ck) and with Air New Zealand for updates on your flight status. All travellers should follow local Cook Islands health guidelines . We also strongly encourage all travellers in the Cook Islands to register on the www.safetravel.govt.nz and monitor Covid19.govt.nz (this website) for further updates.
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand is paused. The Cook Islands Government has indicated that travel will remain paused until it is confident there is no community transmission in New Zealand. This will likely be when New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back to New Zealand. You must meet some conditions. Travelling back to NZ after moving to Alert Level 4 You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in New Zealand can travel quarantine-free to the Cook Islands, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. You can travel to the outer islands after you arrive in Rarotonga. You do not need to self-isolate in Rarotonga before you continue your journey to the outer islands. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. To travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete the travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart New Zealand (see information below) You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Anyone can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for a stay of up to 31 days. The passport you hold does not matter. You must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. New Zealand and Australian passport holders need at least 7 days remaining on their passports from the date they leave the Cook Islands. All other passport holders need at least 6 months remaining. It is your responsibility to ensure that you meet the Cook Islands immigration requirements. Travel information for the Cook Islands | cookislands.travel (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You must check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand from the Cook Islands. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Cook Islands Ministry of Health travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart from New Zealand. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You need to complete our own Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you fly back to New Zealand. It is a good idea to complete it before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. You do not need a negative pre-departure COVID-19 test to travel to the Cook Islands. Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You will notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. You may be screened for your health when you arrive in the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. While you are in the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you are visiting safe from COVID-19. Follow the guidelines for the Cook Islands — you can find information on the Cook Islands Government website. COVID-19 Cook Islands response | gov.ck (external link) Maintain physical distancing from others as much as possible. Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser regularly, cough or sneeze into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Avoid unnecessary touching of surfaces and items in places like shops. If you feel unwell, stay in your accommodation and put a face covering on, if you have one. Do not use public transport to go home. Call the Cook Islands Healthline on 29667 for advice about what to do next. Make sure you participate in the Cook Islands system to track people’s movements. Doing your part means you are part of the national effort to keep the Cook Islands COVID-19 free. The Cook Islands uses a system that's a little different to New Zealand’s: Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the CookSafe+ app to keep track of the people you have been near. Keep reading to find out how to use your CookSafe QR Card, as this part is a little different to how we scan in here in New Zealand. When you arrive, register for your unique CookSafe QR Card, which is a physical card you should keep with you at all times. CookSafe stations will be set up at some locations, and you should use your QR Card to scan in. Scan your QR Card at all locations with a ‘CookSafe Tag In Here’ sign. To scan in, hold your card in front of the scanning area of the device. The screen will appear green when you have successfully scanned in. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. More information about the CookSafe QR Card | cookislands.travel (external link) Download the CookSafe+ app to help with contact tracing if needed. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) CookSafe+ uses Bluetooth technology, and it works in the same way as Bluetooth tracing on our NZ COVID Tracer app. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in 1 contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you're in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall 1 app to be able to use the other. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been and who you have seen with your own pen and paper or keep a photo record. The CookSafe+ app does not remove the need to scan in with your CookSafe QR Card. Remember to take your card with you everywhere you go. Any Bluetooth codes (or 'keys') that are sent or collected from your phone using 1 app can be accessed with the other app. The apps work together to make sure that whether you are in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, you can receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. More about CookSafe+ app | health.gov.ck (external link) The Cook Islands has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. About the Alert Level system | covid19.gov.ck (external link) On 2 February 2021, the Cook Islands declared a dengue 2 outbreak. Dengue is spread by the bite of an infected mosquito. The outbreak is ongoing and you should protect yourself and your loved ones against mosquito bites. Information about dengue | health.govt.nz (external link) Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in the Cook Islands for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Make sure you keep in contact with your employer if your return is delayed. If you’re an employer, make sure you know your workers’ rights in this situation. Guidance for workers and employers about quarantine-free travel (external link) You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in the Cook Islands, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you are a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the Cook Islands. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case If you are travelling back to New Zealand, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Everyone must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before they depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. It is a good idea to complete Nau Mai Rā before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand is paused. The Cook Islands Government has indicated that travel will remain paused until it is confident there is no community transmission in New Zealand. This will likely be when New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back to New Zealand. You must meet some conditions. Travelling back to NZ after moving to Alert Level 4 --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in New Zealand can travel quarantine-free to the Cook Islands, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. You can travel to the outer islands after you arrive in Rarotonga. You do not need to self-isolate in Rarotonga before you continue your journey to the outer islands. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. --- Section Separator --- To travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete the travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart New Zealand (see information below) You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Anyone can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for a stay of up to 31 days. The passport you hold does not matter. You must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. New Zealand and Australian passport holders need at least 7 days remaining on their passports from the date they leave the Cook Islands. All other passport holders need at least 6 months remaining. It is your responsibility to ensure that you meet the Cook Islands immigration requirements. Travel information for the Cook Islands | cookislands.travel (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You must check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand from the Cook Islands. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Cook Islands Ministry of Health travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart from New Zealand. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You need to complete our own Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you fly back to New Zealand. It is a good idea to complete it before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. You do not need a negative pre-departure COVID-19 test to travel to the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You will notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. You may be screened for your health when you arrive in the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. --- Section Separator --- While you are in the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you are visiting safe from COVID-19. Follow the guidelines for the Cook Islands — you can find information on the Cook Islands Government website. COVID-19 Cook Islands response | gov.ck (external link) Maintain physical distancing from others as much as possible. Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser regularly, cough or sneeze into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Avoid unnecessary touching of surfaces and items in places like shops. If you feel unwell, stay in your accommodation and put a face covering on, if you have one. Do not use public transport to go home. Call the Cook Islands Healthline on 29667 for advice about what to do next. Make sure you participate in the Cook Islands system to track people’s movements. Doing your part means you are part of the national effort to keep the Cook Islands COVID-19 free. The Cook Islands uses a system that's a little different to New Zealand’s: Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the CookSafe+ app to keep track of the people you have been near. Keep reading to find out how to use your CookSafe QR Card, as this part is a little different to how we scan in here in New Zealand. When you arrive, register for your unique CookSafe QR Card, which is a physical card you should keep with you at all times. CookSafe stations will be set up at some locations, and you should use your QR Card to scan in. Scan your QR Card at all locations with a ‘CookSafe Tag In Here’ sign. To scan in, hold your card in front of the scanning area of the device. The screen will appear green when you have successfully scanned in. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. More information about the CookSafe QR Card | cookislands.travel (external link) Download the CookSafe+ app to help with contact tracing if needed. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) CookSafe+ uses Bluetooth technology, and it works in the same way as Bluetooth tracing on our NZ COVID Tracer app. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in 1 contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you're in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall 1 app to be able to use the other. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been and who you have seen with your own pen and paper or keep a photo record. The CookSafe+ app does not remove the need to scan in with your CookSafe QR Card. Remember to take your card with you everywhere you go. Any Bluetooth codes (or 'keys') that are sent or collected from your phone using 1 app can be accessed with the other app. The apps work together to make sure that whether you are in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, you can receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. More about CookSafe+ app | health.gov.ck (external link) The Cook Islands has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. About the Alert Level system | covid19.gov.ck (external link) On 2 February 2021, the Cook Islands declared a dengue 2 outbreak. Dengue is spread by the bite of an infected mosquito. The outbreak is ongoing and you should protect yourself and your loved ones against mosquito bites. Information about dengue | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in the Cook Islands for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Make sure you keep in contact with your employer if your return is delayed. If you’re an employer, make sure you know your workers’ rights in this situation. Guidance for workers and employers about quarantine-free travel (external link) You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in the Cook Islands, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you are a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the Cook Islands. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling back to New Zealand, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Everyone must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before they depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. It is a good idea to complete Nau Mai Rā before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Travel with Australia Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back to New Zealand. You must some conditions. Travelling back to NZ Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand is paused. The Cook Islands Government has indicated that travel will remain paused until it is confident there is no community transmission in New Zealand. This will likely be when New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back on a scheduled flight. You cannot fly if you have been at a location of interest in New Zealand or if you have COVID-19 symptoms. We encourage you to fly back as soon as possible. Before you travel: make sure you follow all Alert Level 2 health restrictions in the Cook Islands Check the Cook Islands government website (external link) complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. If your travel plans have changed, please fill out the declaration again. You need to contact Te Marae Ora (Cook Islands Ministry of Health) if you arrived in the Cook Islands between 3 August and 16 August (Cook Islands time) and you: have COVID-19 symptoms, or have been at a location of interest in New Zealand at the stated time. Locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) Call Te Marae Ora for advice on 57481, or 57482, or 57486, or 56199. You will need to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate for 14 days before you can return to New Zealand. Travel is restricted in Auckland at Alert Level 3. However, you can travel through New Zealand to get home.. You must do the following: Travel home as quickly and directly as possible. Follow all public health requirements while travelling, including wearing face coverings, physical distancing and scanning QR codes. If you need to stay in transit accommodation in Auckland while waiting to return home, follow all Alert Level 3 restrictions. Someone can pick you up at the airport if you are joining their household bubble. They can travel into Auckland to pick you up, as long as they do not travel to any other locations in Auckland. They should carry evidence of why they are travelling Recommended evidence for travel (external link) What to do at Alert Level 3 You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in the Cook Islands can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in New Zealand, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you are in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you have been. New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You will need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you have visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. New Zealand's contact tracing system is a little different to the CookSafe+ app and CookSafe QR code Card system. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, ferries and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you are offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you are helping keep everyone safe. New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case How to travel back to the Cook Islands Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back to New Zealand. You must some conditions. Travelling back to NZ Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand is paused. The Cook Islands Government has indicated that travel will remain paused until it is confident there is no community transmission in New Zealand. This will likely be when New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back on a scheduled flight. You cannot fly if you have been at a location of interest in New Zealand or if you have COVID-19 symptoms. We encourage you to fly back as soon as possible. Before you travel: make sure you follow all Alert Level 2 health restrictions in the Cook Islands Check the Cook Islands government website (external link) complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. If your travel plans have changed, please fill out the declaration again. You need to contact Te Marae Ora (Cook Islands Ministry of Health) if you arrived in the Cook Islands between 3 August and 16 August (Cook Islands time) and you: have COVID-19 symptoms, or have been at a location of interest in New Zealand at the stated time. Locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) Call Te Marae Ora for advice on 57481, or 57482, or 57486, or 56199. You will need to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate for 14 days before you can return to New Zealand. Travel is restricted in Auckland at Alert Level 3. However, you can travel through New Zealand to get home.. You must do the following: Travel home as quickly and directly as possible. Follow all public health requirements while travelling, including wearing face coverings, physical distancing and scanning QR codes. If you need to stay in transit accommodation in Auckland while waiting to return home, follow all Alert Level 3 restrictions. Someone can pick you up at the airport if you are joining their household bubble. They can travel into Auckland to pick you up, as long as they do not travel to any other locations in Auckland. They should carry evidence of why they are travelling Recommended evidence for travel (external link) What to do at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in the Cook Islands can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. --- Section Separator --- To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in New Zealand, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you are in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you have been. New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You will need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you have visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. New Zealand's contact tracing system is a little different to the CookSafe+ app and CookSafe QR code Card system. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, ferries and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you are offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you are helping keep everyone safe. New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- If community cases occur in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. You airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) Check these websites and social media regularly for updates that may affect you. You should especially check Covid19.govt.nz for updates just before your return. The New Zealand and Cook Islands governments have a plan for how they will manage quarantine-free travel arrangements if there is an outbreak of COVID-19. The response will depend on the situation and level of risk. Here is a guide to what might happen and what you could be asked to do if there are COVID-19 cases in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case --- Section Separator --- How to travel back to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Travel with Australia Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand How we would manage travel to the Cook Islands if there is a COVID-19 case Niue
Home Travel Quarantine-free travel Travel with Australia Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand while quarantine-free travel is suspended. --- Section Separator --- Sign up if you would like email notifications about travel with Australia. Sign up now (external link) --- Section Separator --- On 17 September 2021, the Government suspended quarantine-free travel with Australia for a further 8 weeks. This is due to the current Delta outbreaks. Uncontrolled community transmission is still occurring in Australia, with case numbers continuing to steadily increase in some states and territories. In New Zealand, we are getting on top of an outbreak in Auckland. The Government will review this decision in mid-to-late November 2021, to give more time for our vaccination rates to climb higher. --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. The travel restrictions apply to almost all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. If you want to travel from Australia, you must be eligible to enter New Zealand. Check now to see if you can travel. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you want to travel to New Zealand, you need to book your MIQ voucher when they are available. This applies to travellers from all states and territories in Australia. MIQ has introduced a virtual lobby for all room releases. Visit the MIQ website to find out how to participate in the virtual lobby booking system. How to use the virtual lobby | miq.govt.nz (external link) Get your voucher through the virtual lobby (external link) You need to: have the right to enter New Zealand complete a 14-day stay in MIQ — the normal rules around paying for your stay in MIQ will apply, and provide a negative pre-departure test. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Costs for MIQ (external link) Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from the South Island of New Zealand will begin at 11:59pm (AEST) on Tuesday 19 October 2021. You must: have a negative PCR pre-departure test result, administered no more than 72 hours before the departure flight time carry evidence of being fully vaccinated against COVID-19 (if you are eligible for a vaccine) not have been in the North Island of New Zealand in the 14 days before travel not have been at a location of interest in New Zealand in the 14 days before travel declare before your travel that you have met these requirements. Make sure you check the requirements for being fully vaccinated, and what evidence you need to carry. If you wish to travel quarantine-free to Australia, you must meet these requirements. Check with your airline about available flights. Your options for travel from New Zealand may be limited as airlines may not have many flights available. We recommend you contact your airline to confirm your booking. The state or territory you arrive in may have extra measures to protect everyone from COVID-19. Check what you need to do before you travel. Australia travel zones | health.gov.au (external link) Quarantine-free travel from the North Island remains suspended. It is suspended due to COVID-19 cases in the community. If you are flying to Australia from the North Island, you must enter 14 days of supervised “hotel quarantine”. This is similar to New Zealand's MIQ. You may have to pay for your stay. Your options for travel from New Zealand may be limited as airlines may not have many flights available. We recommend you contact your airline to confirm your booking. The New Zealand Government advises everyone in New Zealand “do not travel to Australia”, unless you usually live in Australia and you are returning home. If you need to travel to Australia, check the requirements you must meet with the Australian Government. If you want to return to New Zealand, you must be eligible to enter New Zealand and you will have to book a voucher for MIQ. --- Section Separator --- If you are in Australia and have not been able to return home, we encourage you to: Register to get the latest travel advice for Australia | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) (external link) Sign up for email notifications for travel with Australia (external link) If you need information about returning home, you can call the contact centre for advice: +64 4 931 5720 if you are in Australia — rates will apply 0800 476 647 if you are in New Zealand — calls are free You can call between 8am to 10pm (NZT), 7 days a week. It is your responsibility to manage your costs for travel disruption. If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. Consular staff in New Zealand and at our consular offices in Australia cannot arrange a space in MIQ or a flight to New Zealand for you. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. Emergency consular help is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Reconnecting New Zealanders to the world is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders and develop new ways for people to travel to and from Aotearoa New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- This is a new framework for travel that will involve gradually shifting our border settings from where New Zealand is now, with travel based on country-to-country arrangements, to a risk-based travel approach based on individual travellers. It will take into account a number of factors, including vaccine status. Read more about the next steps [PDF, 122 KB] --- Section Separator --- Maintaining our elimination strategy to stamp out the virus and keep our options open. Ensuring every eligible New Zealander is offered the opportunity to be vaccinated as soon as possible. Reducing the need for further lockdowns as much as possible by continuing to strengthen our health and contact tracing systems. Maintaining strong public health tools. Developing new ways to enable people to travel safely to and from New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World forum brought together experts to discuss the next steps in our reconnection strategy. The forum featured a presentation from Sir David Skegg, a panel discussion with experts and a speech from Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern. The event was held on Thursday 12 August 2021. Watch the Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World forum --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation is part of the Government’s plan for re-opening borders and allowing more people to visit and return home to New Zealand without the requirement to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). A self-isolation pilot over October and December 2021 will test some of the systems and processes that would be needed to roll out self-isolation more widely. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) will administer the pilot. Learn more about the self-isolation pilot (external link) Eligibility criteria and self-isolation requirements (external link) Expressions of interest for the pilot (external link) --- Section Separator --- The traveller health declaration system will collect information from travellers arriving in New Zealand. In future, New Zealand will assess the health risk of each traveller depending on their vaccination status, test results and where they have travelled. This information will be used to help facilitate the traveller on arrival to New Zealand, for example whether they need to go into a MIQ facility, or be eligible for other isolation options and testing requirements. In order to confirm people’s vaccination status, this system will be able to validate the vaccination certificate and show it is authentic and can be trusted. The complexity of digital and operational systems that the traveller health declaration system needs means it will be developed in stages with security and simplicity for users being key to the solution. The first version will be available in Quarter1 2022. The New Zealand Customs Service will admin ister the project. --- Section Separator --- Vaccination status and verification will be an important part of supporting New Zealanders to travel internationally. The Ministry of Health is currently piloting a web application called My COVID Record so people can access their vaccination and test records using the new My Health Account. Pending a successful pilot, this service is due to made available to the public in mid-October. My Covid Record will be a self-service web application for consumers to generate their COVID-19 vaccination certificate that can be verified by international jurisdictions. Work is underway on developing digital certificates that can be stored on a person’s phone. These are expected to be available later this year. Those who cannot access digital devices will have an assisted phone line support option. Learn more about proof of vaccination for travel (external link)
Home Travel Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World The Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World forum --- Section Separator --- The forum started with a presentation from Sir David Skegg, with an overview of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group’s advice on reconnecting New Zealand. It was followed by a discussion MC’d by the Prime Minister’s Chief Science Advisor, Dame Juliet Gerrard. The experts bring a range of backgrounds and perspectives to a discussion about vaccination, safe borders, safe travel and public health habits. The event also featured a speech from Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and opening remarks from Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health. --- Section Separator --- The forum started with a presentation from Sir David Skegg, with an overview of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group’s advice on reconnecting New Zealand. It was followed by a discussion MC’d by the Prime Minister’s Chief Science Advisor, Dame Juliet Gerrard. The experts bring a range of backgrounds and perspectives to a discussion about vaccination, safe borders, safe travel and public health habits. The event also featured a speech from Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and opening remarks from Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health. --- Section Separator --- The Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World forum
