Whether positive or negative, you should report the results of your RAT. If your result is positive, you must self-isolate for 7 days. What you need to know Travel to New Zealand Get a test COVID-19 symptoms How to self-isolate Household Contacts Financial support Wear a face mask Weekly case numbers Close Contacts Long COVID --- Section Separator --- From 1 March the Pfizer bivalent vaccine will replace the existing booster. From 1 April, an additional booster will be available for those eligible. Watch the COVID-19 bivalent vaccine rollout announcement. Tamariki aged 6 months to 4 years who are immunocompromised or have multiple or complex health conditions are eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine. --- Section Separator --- Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity stronger for longer. If you are at risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19, you can get COVID-19 antivirals. Find COVID-19 information in accessible formats and different languages. --- Section Separator --- Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity stronger for longer. If you are at risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19, you can get COVID-19 antivirals. Find COVID-19 information in accessible formats and different languages.
Home About this site Contact us Find contact information for Unite against COVID-19 Communications, Te Whatu Ora Health New Zealand. I am looking for... How to order, take and report a RAT What to do if you test positive Self-isolation rules Antiviral medicines Financial support --- Section Separator --- For COVID-19 health advice call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. --- Section Separator --- You can find guidance and submit an Official Information Request to the COVID-19 Group on the DPMC website: How to make an Official Information Act request (external link) You can find guidance on how to submit an Official Information Act request to Te Whatu Ora on its website: Official Information Act requests | Te Whatu Ora (external link) Find information and advice translated into different languages: Translations Find information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs: Alternate formats Immigration New Zealand can answer questions about travel eligibility and visa categories. Contact Immigration NZ | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you run or own a business, you can find information on the business.govt website: COVID-19: Information for businesses (external link) Contact us | business.govt.nz (external link) We have a selection of posters available on this website. Download posters All our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, can be viewed and downloaded through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered directly to you, your business or your community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) You will need to contact the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. You can send a query through an online form on the Employment website or call them. Online form | employment.govt.nz (external link) Call: 0800 20 90 20 Call 111 immediately. If you have COVID-19, tell them when you ring. You need to contact your care co-ordinator or call Healthline. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19response@health.govt.nz There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 All MIQ facilities are now closed. Isolation and quarantine | Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment (external link) If you have a health concern after your vaccination, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor. You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19vaccine@health.govt.nz Visit the Work and Income website for urgent financial support and ongoing needs. You can apply for a main benefit online and check your eligibility for food assistance. Work and Income website (external link) (external link) 0800 559 009 (MSD General Line) 0800 552 002 (Seniors 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Students) In MyMSD you can check your payments, tell MSD about changes and apply for a benefit or NZ Super: Use MyMSD (external link) You can also use the COVID-19 financial support tool on this website to see what support is available to you. Use the financial support tool If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with isolation rules. Report a breach online (external link) Face masks If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements How to report false or misleading information that you see can be found on this website. Report false or misleading information For COVID-19 operational media enquiries, contact the Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand media team: Email: hnzmedia@health.govt.nz For COVID-19 policy media enquiries, contact the Ministry of Health media team: Email: media@health.govt.nz If you have questions or feedback about the app, QR code posters or any problems using them, you will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Call 0800 800 606 You must enable JavaScript to submit this form --- Section Separator --- Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. If you are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to make a call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in alternate formats, including: New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print Audio Braille Audio description. Alternate formats Many government agencies have language support available if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages. Translations --- Section Separator --- If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach --- Section Separator --- You can contact Unite against COVID-19 Communications by using our online form above or by sending us a letter. If you are sending us feedback about our website, Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage you have feedback about. Postal address: Unite against COVID-19 Communications Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand PO Box 793 Wellington New Zealand 6140 Follow Unite against COVID-19 and Te Whatu Ora Health — New Zealand on social media. Social media
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. You might be interested in Children aged 5 to 11 Check your eligibility Children 6 months to 4 years Proof of vaccination Using My Covid Record About Novavax Vaccine advice for disabled people COVID-19 vaccine data --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer BA.4/5 COVID-19 bivalent vaccine is now the vaccine used for booster doses. From 1 April, anyone who has completed a primary vaccination course will be eligible to get another booster if you are: aged 30 and over or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. If you are eligible for this extra booster from 1 April, it will need to be at least 6 months since your last COVID-19 booster or a positive COVID-19 test. New booster plan in time for winter --- Section Separator --- Talk to the COVID Vaccination Healthline 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. Call 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity stronger for longer. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. All vaccination mandates have ended. For health and safety, some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated against COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity stronger for longer. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. All vaccination mandates have ended. For health and safety, some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated against COVID-19.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine boosters Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity stronger for longer. --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer BA.4/5 COVID-19 bivalent vaccine is now the vaccine used for booster doses. From 1 April, anyone who has completed a primary vaccination course will be eligible to get another booster if you are: aged 30 and over or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. If you are eligible for this extra booster from 1 April, it will need to be at least 6 months since your last COVID-19 booster or a positive COVID-19 test. New booster plan in time for winter --- Section Separator --- Protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. Staying up to date with your vaccinations keeps your immunity levels high. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. The Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine is now the vaccine used for boosters. The bivalent vaccine produces an immune response against the original virus and Omicron variants, specifically the BA.4 and BA.5 subvariants. Current evidence indicates that the bivalent vaccine is more effective against Omicron subvariants than earlier vaccines. If you are eligible and do not want to get the bivalent vaccine for your booster dose, you can ask for the original Pfizer vaccine when you arrive for your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- You can get a first booster if you: are aged 16 or over have completed your primary course of the vaccine (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are aged 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster 6 months after your last dose. If you are 18 or over, you can get a Pfizer booster 3 months after your last dose, or a Novavax booster 6 months after your last dose. You can get a second booster if you are at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19. This includes: everyone aged 50 and over Māori and Pacific peoples aged 40 and over healthcare, aged care and disability workers aged 30 and over residents of aged care and disability care facilities severely immunocompromised people who received a 3-dose primary course and a fourth dose as a first booster (this would be a fifth dose for these people) people aged 16 and over who live with a disability with significant or complex health needs or multiple comorbidities people aged 16 and over with a medical condition that increases the risk of severe COVID-19 illness. If you are eligible, you can get your second booster 6 months after your first booster. Clinical criteria in support of second booster eligibility | Ministry of Health (external link) From 1 April 2023, anyone who has completed a primary course will be eligible to get another booster if you are: aged 30 and over or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. This is regardless of how many boosters you have had. It will need to be at least 6 months since your last COVID-19 booster or a positive COVID-19 test. High-risk groups include: people aged 65 years and over Māori and Pacific peoples aged 50 years and over residents of aged care and disability care facilities severely immunocompromised people people aged 16 and over who live with a disability with significant or complex health needs or multiple comorbidities people aged 16 and over with a medical condition that increases the risk of severe COVID-19 illness. You can book your additional bivalent booster from late March. --- Section Separator --- You can check the date of your last vaccination in My Covid Record. Visit My Covid Record (external link) To find out over the phone, call the COVID Vaccination Healthline. You can call between 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Call: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It can show you where vaccination sites are, how soon you can get an appointment, and which vaccine types are available. Appointment availability map | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz The COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Call: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. COVID-19 vaccinations, no appointment required | Healthpoint (external link) --- Section Separator --- Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. If you have had COVID-19 and are eligible for a booster, you can get it 3 months after you tested positive. --- Section Separator --- When you get a booster it is added to My Covid Record. You can then download another International Travel Vaccination Certificate or vaccination record. Visit My Covid Record (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccines used in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks or more. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more. For children aged 6 months to 4 years, the vaccine is a 3-dose course. It is recommended the second dose is given 3 weeks after the first. Followed by a third dose given at least 8 weeks after the second dose. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients. How the Pfizer vaccine works | Ministry of Health (external link) The Pfizer BA.4/5 COVID-19 bivalent vaccine is used for booster doses. A bivalent vaccine is a vaccine with 2 strains or components of a virus. The Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine contains equal parts of mRNA for the original virus and the Omicron subvariants BA.4/5. This vaccine produces an immune response for the original virus and the Omicron variant — specifically the BA.4 and BA.5 subvariants. The original vaccine is a monovalent vaccine with 1 strain or component of a virus. It gives protection against the original strain of COVID-19. It also gives protection against other more recent strains. The existing vaccine still provides good protection against severe illness from COVID-19. A primary course of the COVID-19 vaccine will use the original vaccine. Boosters will use the bivalent vaccine, as Medsafe has only granted provisional approval for its use as a booster. The Novavax (Nuvaxovid) COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 12 years and over who wants a different COVID-19 vaccine option. It is a protein-based vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks. Novavax is available as a booster at least 6 months after completing the primary course of any COVID-19 vaccine used in New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines: Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend approving a medicine for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. How COVID-19 vaccines are assessed | Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects when you get a COVID-19 vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines NZ Vaccine Facts COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials and testing | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks or more. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more. For children aged 6 months to 4 years, the vaccine is a 3-dose course. It is recommended the second dose is given 3 weeks after the first. Followed by a third dose given at least 8 weeks after the second dose. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients. How the Pfizer vaccine works | Ministry of Health (external link) The Pfizer BA.4/5 COVID-19 bivalent vaccine is used for booster doses. A bivalent vaccine is a vaccine with 2 strains or components of a virus. The Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine contains equal parts of mRNA for the original virus and the Omicron subvariants BA.4/5. This vaccine produces an immune response for the original virus and the Omicron variant — specifically the BA.4 and BA.5 subvariants. The original vaccine is a monovalent vaccine with 1 strain or component of a virus. It gives protection against the original strain of COVID-19. It also gives protection against other more recent strains. The existing vaccine still provides good protection against severe illness from COVID-19. A primary course of the COVID-19 vaccine will use the original vaccine. Boosters will use the bivalent vaccine, as Medsafe has only granted provisional approval for its use as a booster. --- Section Separator --- The Novavax (Nuvaxovid) COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 12 years and over who wants a different COVID-19 vaccine option. It is a protein-based vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks. Novavax is available as a booster at least 6 months after completing the primary course of any COVID-19 vaccine used in New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines: Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend approving a medicine for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. How COVID-19 vaccines are assessed | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects when you get a COVID-19 vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials and testing | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get your COVID-19 vaccination Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. What you need to know Children 6 months to 4 years Vaccine side effects Boosters If you have a health condition Child aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you are pregnant or breastfeeding --- Section Separator --- Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The Novavax vaccine is not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to previous vaccination and help your immunity be stronger and last longer. The Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine is now the vaccine used for boosters only. If you have had COVID-19 and are eligible for a booster, you can get it 3 months after you tested positive. COVID-19 vaccine boosters --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It can show you where vaccination sites are, how soon you can get an appointment, and which vaccine types are available. Appointment availability map | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz The COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Call: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- You will need your booking reference to reschedule or cancel an appointment online. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. Cancel or change your booking online | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) Call: 0800 28 29 26
Home COVID-19 vaccines Side effects --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. Some side effects are more serious but rare, such as a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are watched for around 15 minutes post-vaccination. Vaccinators are well trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle. Pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections including COVID-19, but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the COVID-19 vaccines. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis and pericarditis include: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is 'skipping beats'. If you get any of these symptoms after your Pfizer or Novavax vaccination, promptly get medical help — for example from your doctor or after-hours medical service. You will not have to pay for this. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 at any time to get advice. If you need urgent medical help, call 111 . Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. Also tell them if you have COVID-19, or have had it. Children are less likely to have these side effects but may not tell you about the symptoms. We recommend you ask your child how they feel after being vaccinated. A rare but serious side effect is a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis). These reactions usually happen soon after your vaccination, which is why you need to wait at least 15 minutes. If you do have a serious allergic reaction, vaccinators are trained to help. COVID-19: Vaccine side effects and reactions | Ministry of Health (external link) It is recommended you do not have Novavax if you have had a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) to a previous dose of the vaccine or to any component of the vaccine. Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health (external link) Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | Ministry of Health (external link) If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM | New Zealand Pharmacovigilance Centre (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. --- Section Separator --- Some side effects are more serious but rare, such as a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are watched for around 15 minutes post-vaccination. Vaccinators are well trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle. Pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections including COVID-19, but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the COVID-19 vaccines. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis and pericarditis include: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is 'skipping beats'. If you get any of these symptoms after your Pfizer or Novavax vaccination, promptly get medical help — for example from your doctor or after-hours medical service. You will not have to pay for this. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 at any time to get advice. If you need urgent medical help, call 111 . Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. Also tell them if you have COVID-19, or have had it. Children are less likely to have these side effects but may not tell you about the symptoms. We recommend you ask your child how they feel after being vaccinated. A rare but serious side effect is a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis). These reactions usually happen soon after your vaccination, which is why you need to wait at least 15 minutes. If you do have a serious allergic reaction, vaccinators are trained to help. COVID-19: Vaccine side effects and reactions | Ministry of Health (external link) It is recommended you do not have Novavax if you have had a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) to a previous dose of the vaccine or to any component of the vaccine. Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. --- Section Separator --- If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM | New Zealand Pharmacovigilance Centre (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine boosters What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine passes and certificates Vaccinations and work
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- Some health and disability sector employers may require workers to be vaccinated. This is because workers come into close contact with people likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. Employers can choose to require workers to be vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccination requirements may only be appropriate if the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19 at work is higher than in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read guidance on the Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand websites: COVID-19 controls at work | WorkSafe (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | Employment New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some health and disability sector employers may require workers to be vaccinated. This is because workers come into close contact with people likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Employers can choose to require workers to be vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccination requirements may only be appropriate if the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19 at work is higher than in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read guidance on the Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand websites: COVID-19 controls at work | WorkSafe (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | Employment New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine boosters What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine passes and certificates Vaccinations and work
Home COVID-19 vaccines What to expect when you get your vaccination --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. COVID Immunisation Register (CIR) privacy statement | Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The Novavax vaccine is not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. COVID Immunisation Register (CIR) privacy statement | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The Novavax vaccine is not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine boosters What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine passes and certificates Vaccinations and work
Home International travel Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. What you need to know Recommended testing when you arrive in NZ If you get COVID-19 while visiting NZ When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Travellers and crew do not need pre-departure tests or proof of COVID-19 vaccination to enter New Zealand. Please check with your airline or cruise provider as they may still require proof of vaccination. If you have COVID-19 symptoms when you arrive in New Zealand by air, we encourage you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT). You can get free RATs at the airport, please take some. Please report a positive test result by calling: 0800 432 010 — if you are calling from a New Zealand phone number +64 9 954 6118 — if you are using an international SIM card. Check with your phone provider as there may be charges. COVID-19 and travelling in New Zealand (external link) If your RAT is positive, we encourage you to also get a PCR test. These tests help us monitor new COVID-19 variants. PCR tests are free if you arrived in New Zealand by air, so make sure to tell them you are a recent international arrival. Getting a PCR test (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's maritime border is open to foreign commercial vessels, including trade and cargo vessels. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. New Zealand's maritime border is open to foreign registered recreational vessels — including superyachts. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. What you need to know about the current COVID-19 measures in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's maritime border is open to foreign commercial vessels, including trade and cargo vessels. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. New Zealand's maritime border is open to foreign registered recreational vessels — including superyachts. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. What you need to know about the current COVID-19 measures in New Zealand.
Home Languages and resources Find COVID-19 information in your language, accessible formats and download posters and resources for your business or household. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori New Zealand Sign Language عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese --- Section Separator --- Download our posters and resources for your home and business.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read --- Section Separator --- Changes to the COVID-19 rules [DOCX, 9.1 MB] Changes to the COVID-19 rules [PDF, 2.1 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 13 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [PDF, 3.2 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Getting free face masks [PDF, 1.4 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 3.9 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.2 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] (external link) What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [PDF, 1.2 MB] (external link) Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [PDF, 2.8 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [DOCX, 17 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [PDF, 2.6 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [DOCX, 14 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [PDF, 2.3 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [DOCX, 5.4 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [PDF, 1.5 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 5.2 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [PDF, 1.3 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 12 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 3 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [PDF, 2.4 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Changes to the COVID-19 rules [DOCX, 9.1 MB] Changes to the COVID-19 rules [PDF, 2.1 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 13 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [PDF, 3.2 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Getting free face masks [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 3.9 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.2 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] (external link) What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [PDF, 1.2 MB] (external link) Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [PDF, 2.8 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [DOCX, 17 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [PDF, 2.6 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [DOCX, 14 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [PDF, 2.3 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [DOCX, 5.4 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 5.2 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [PDF, 1.3 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 12 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 3 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [PDF, 2.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio --- Section Separator --- Updates to the COVID-19 response [DOCX, 349 KB] Updates to the COVID-19 response [MP3, 1 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 60 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [MP3, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 544 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 537 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [MP3, 2.9 MB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 35 KB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Wearing a face mask [MP3, 470 KB] Getting free face masks [MP3, 987 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] The Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 544 KB] Getting your booster dose [DOCX, 539 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.7 MB] Getting your booster dose [MP3, 10 MB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [MP3, 1.1 MB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] My Covid Record [DOCX, 371 KB] My Covid Record [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 541 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [DOCX, 539 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 542 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.6 MB] Isolating at home [DOCX, 40 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 540 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 1.7 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [MP3, 894 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 60 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [MP3, 1.2 MB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 38 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [MP3, 1.9 MB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 386 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- Updates to the COVID-19 response [DOCX, 349 KB] Updates to the COVID-19 response [MP3, 1 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 60 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [MP3, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 544 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 537 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [MP3, 2.9 MB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 35 KB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Wearing a face mask [MP3, 470 KB] Getting free face masks [MP3, 987 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 544 KB] Getting your booster dose [DOCX, 539 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.7 MB] Getting your booster dose [MP3, 10 MB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [MP3, 1.1 MB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] My Covid Record [DOCX, 371 KB] My Covid Record [MP3, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 541 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [DOCX, 539 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 542 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 40 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 540 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 1.7 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [MP3, 894 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 60 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [MP3, 1.2 MB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 38 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [MP3, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 386 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years (external link) Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare (external link) The COVID-19 virus and symptoms (external link) COVID-19 Information for parents (external link) COVID-19 variants (external link) Long COVID (external link) Getting the right information (external link) Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? (external link) COVID-19 readiness walkthrough (external link) Wearing a face mask (external link) Getting free face masks (external link) Getting your face mask exemption pass (external link) Be mindful of masks (external link) The Pfizer vaccine (external link) Getting your booster dose (external link) Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose (external link) 3rd Primary Dose for Immunocompromised People (external link) Vaccination medical exemptions (external link) How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) Keep up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations (external link) My Covid Record (external link) International Travel Vaccination Certificate (external link) COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years (external link) COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years (external link) COVID-19 vaccine side effects for children aged 6 months to 4 years (external link) After your child's Pfizer vaccination (external link) How to get a Rapid Antigen Test (external link) How to use a Rapid Antigen Test (external link) How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results (external link) What to expect from a PCR test (external link) If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 (external link) What happens if you test positive for COVID-19 (external link) How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form (external link) Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare (external link) Isolating at home (external link) Medicines for treating COVID-19 (external link) Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people (external link) Help while you are self-isolating (external link) Managing your COVID-19 symptoms (external link) After you have had COVID-19 (external link) Travelling to New Zealand (external link) Leaving New Zealand (external link) If you get COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand (external link) Services and support (external link) It's okay to ask for help (external link) It's ok to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in on others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years (external link) Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 virus and symptoms (external link) COVID-19 Information for parents (external link) COVID-19 variants (external link) Long COVID (external link) Getting the right information (external link) Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? (external link) COVID-19 readiness walkthrough (external link) Wearing a face mask (external link) Getting free face masks (external link) Getting your face mask exemption pass (external link) Be mindful of masks (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine (external link) Getting your booster dose (external link) Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose (external link) 3rd Primary Dose for Immunocompromised People (external link) Vaccination medical exemptions (external link) How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) Keep up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations (external link) My Covid Record (external link) International Travel Vaccination Certificate (external link) COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years (external link) COVID-19 vaccine for young children aged 6 months to 4 years (external link) COVID-19 vaccine side effects for children aged 6 months to 4 years (external link) After your child's Pfizer vaccination (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to get a Rapid Antigen Test (external link) How to use a Rapid Antigen Test (external link) How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results (external link) What to expect from a PCR test (external link) If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 (external link) What happens if you test positive for COVID-19 (external link) How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form (external link) --- Section Separator --- Changes to eligibility for free COVID-19 healthcare (external link) Isolating at home (external link) Medicines for treating COVID-19 (external link) Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people (external link) Help while you are self-isolating (external link) Managing your COVID-19 symptoms (external link) After you have had COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand (external link) Leaving New Zealand (external link) If you get COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Services and support (external link) It's okay to ask for help (external link) It's ok to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in on others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated Rapu me pēhea te whiwhi taunakitanga o ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa i te wā e whakawhiti ana ki tāwāhi --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te whakamahi i te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record, te wāhi e taea ai e koe te whakauru atu ki ngā mōhiohio mō tō pūkete KOWHEORI-19. Rapu me pēhea te whakaatu i tō taunakitanga tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ina haere koe ki tāwāhi. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te whakamahi i te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record, te wāhi e taea ai e koe te whakauru atu ki ngā mōhiohio mō tō pūkete KOWHEORI-19. Rapu me pēhea te whakaatu i tō taunakitanga tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ina haere koe ki tāwāhi.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated Taku Pūkete Kowheori | My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- Ko te tauwāhi ko mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) , ā, ka mahi i runga i ngā rorohiko katoa, waea atamai rānei. He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro me te tono i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, me te kite i ngā whakamātautau KOWHEORI kua whakahaeretia e koe. Mā tēnei pae tukutuku ka taea e koe: Te tono i tētahi kape o āu mauhanga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - kei roto ngā tau tira, ngā tau pota, te ingoa kano ārai mate me te kaiwhakaputa, me ngā kano ārai mate o tāwāhi kua tonoa e koe kia tāpiritia ki tō pūkete hauora. Mēnā ka hiahia koe i ēnei kōrero mō tētahi atu, waea ki 0800 222 478 Te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei manatoko i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. Ka taea te tono i ngā mōhiohio mōu ake, mō tētahi atu rānei. Te tiro i ō hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 Te tukuatu ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere . Ka taea e koe te tāpiri i tētahi hua whakamātautau, mōu, mō tētahi atu rānei. Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau te whakauru atu ki My Covid Record: Kaua e toha i tō takiuru me tō kupuhipa My Covid Record ki tētahi atu. Haere ki mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) ka pēhi, ka pāwhiri rānei i te Waitohu Ake . Mā tēnei e tīmata ai te tukanga o te hanga i tētahi My Health Account - otirā e āhei ai koe ki ō mōhiohio hauora tuihono. Me whiwhi koe i tāu ake wāhitau īmēra ki te whakarite i tētahi pūkete. Ka taea te manatoko i tētahi pūkete mā te; Raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei, tētahi uruwhenua, tiwhikete whānautanga o Ahitereiria rānei Te tāuru i ngā taipitopito o tō kaituku ratonga hauora Tētahi pūkete real me kua oti kē te manatoko Raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei, tētahi uruwhenua, tiwhikete whānautanga o Ahitereiria rānei Te tāuru i ngā taipitopito o tō kaituku ratonga hauora Tētahi pūkete real me kua oti kē te manatoko Takiuru ki My Covid Record mā te ingoa kaiwhakamahi me te kupumuna o My Health Account, mā te takiuru me te kupuhipa rānei o tō Real Me. Kia takiuru ake koe ki My Covid Record, ka kite koe i tō pūkete KOWHEORI-19. Ina kite koe i ētahi hapa i tō pūkete, ka taea e koe te whakakī i te puka tuihono e kīia nei ko Change of details form , te īmēra rānei ki help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Mēnā e raruraru ana tō tono i tētahi tiwhikete, pūkete rānei mō tētahi atu ka taea e koe te waea ki: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Mēnā e raruraru ana tō tukuatu i tētahi whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere mō tētahi atu, ka taea e koe te waea ki: 0800 555 728 (8am ki te 8pm, Mane ki te Paraire) --- Section Separator --- Ko te tauwāhi ko mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) , ā, ka mahi i runga i ngā rorohiko katoa, waea atamai rānei. He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro me te tono i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, me te kite i ngā whakamātautau KOWHEORI kua whakahaeretia e koe. Mā tēnei pae tukutuku ka taea e koe: Te tono i tētahi kape o āu mauhanga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - kei roto ngā tau tira, ngā tau pota, te ingoa kano ārai mate me te kaiwhakaputa, me ngā kano ārai mate o tāwāhi kua tonoa e koe kia tāpiritia ki tō pūkete hauora. Mēnā ka hiahia koe i ēnei kōrero mō tētahi atu, waea ki 0800 222 478 Te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei manatoko i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. Ka taea te tono i ngā mōhiohio mōu ake, mō tētahi atu rānei. Te tiro i ō hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 Te tukuatu ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere . Ka taea e koe te tāpiri i tētahi hua whakamātautau, mōu, mō tētahi atu rānei. Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau te whakauru atu ki My Covid Record: Kaua e toha i tō takiuru me tō kupuhipa My Covid Record ki tētahi atu. Haere ki mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) ka pēhi, ka pāwhiri rānei i te Waitohu Ake . Mā tēnei e tīmata ai te tukanga o te hanga i tētahi My Health Account - otirā e āhei ai koe ki ō mōhiohio hauora tuihono. Me whiwhi koe i tāu ake wāhitau īmēra ki te whakarite i tētahi pūkete. Ka taea te manatoko i tētahi pūkete mā te; Raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei, tētahi uruwhenua, tiwhikete whānautanga o Ahitereiria rānei Te tāuru i ngā taipitopito o tō kaituku ratonga hauora Tētahi pūkete real me kua oti kē te manatoko Raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei, tētahi uruwhenua, tiwhikete whānautanga o Ahitereiria rānei Te tāuru i ngā taipitopito o tō kaituku ratonga hauora Tētahi pūkete real me kua oti kē te manatoko Takiuru ki My Covid Record mā te ingoa kaiwhakamahi me te kupumuna o My Health Account, mā te takiuru me te kupuhipa rānei o tō Real Me. Kia takiuru ake koe ki My Covid Record, ka kite koe i tō pūkete KOWHEORI-19. Ina kite koe i ētahi hapa i tō pūkete, ka taea e koe te whakakī i te puka tuihono e kīia nei ko Change of details form , te īmēra rānei ki help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Mēnā e raruraru ana tō tono i tētahi tiwhikete, pūkete rānei mō tētahi atu ka taea e koe te waea ki: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Mēnā e raruraru ana tō tukuatu i tētahi whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere mō tētahi atu, ka taea e koe te waea ki: 0800 555 728 (8am ki te 8pm, Mane ki te Paraire) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home News and data Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. What you need to know Vaccination rates around NZ Media conferences Latest case numbers --- Section Separator --- From 1 March the Pfizer bivalent vaccine will replace the existing booster. From 1 April, an additional booster will be available for those eligible. Watch the COVID-19 bivalent vaccine rollout announcement. Tamariki aged 6 months to 4 years who are immunocompromised or have multiple or complex health conditions are eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine. --- Section Separator --- The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow Unite against COVID-19 and Te Whatu Ora – Health New Zealand on social media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow Unite against COVID-19 and Te Whatu Ora – Health New Zealand on social media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Report a breach online
Home News and data Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Data and statistics available: COVID-19 cases Vaccine data COVID-19 data portal Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 March 2023 The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. This includes: current COVID-19 cases case demographics source of COVID-19 cases. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more case data. COVID-19 current cases | Ministry of Health (external link) 190 Cases in hospital as at midnight Sunday 190 Cases in hospital as at midnight Sunday 1,644 New case 7-day rolling average 1,644 New case 7-day rolling average 11,544 New cases reported in the last week 11,544 New cases reported in the last week 217 People reinfected within 90 days (in the last week) 217 People reinfected within 90 days (in the last week) --- Section Separator --- You can filter case numbers by health districts, age groups, and first infections and reinfections. COVID-19 data charts | Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 March 2023 The Ministry of Health reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and deaths related to COVID-19. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more data. COVID-19 current cases data | Ministry of Health (external link) 2 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 2 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 2,560 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) 2,560 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 March 2023 The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more testing data. Testing for COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) 2,477 7-day rolling average of RATs each day 2,477 7-day rolling average of RATs each day 7,730 PCR tests in the past week 7,730 PCR tests in the past week --- Section Separator --- Last updated 8 March 2023 The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Data is updated weekly on a Wednesday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more vaccine data. COVID-19 vaccine data | Ministry of Health (external link) The dataset used to calculate the percentage of people vaccinated changed in August 2022. Find out more on the Te Whatu Ora website: Updated health user information informs COVID-19 vaccination programme | Te Whatu Ora (external link) 73.2% Percentage of eligible 18+ who have received first booster 73.2% Percentage of eligible 18+ who have received first booster 89.3% Percentage of 12+ who have completed primary course 89.3% Percentage of 12+ who have completed primary course 270,096 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 270,096 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 155,960 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 155,960 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 2,754,040 Booster first doses 2,754,040 Booster first doses 758,675 Booster second doses 758,675 Booster second doses 49 Infant first dose (age 6 months to 4 years) 49 Infant first dose (age 6 months to 4 years) --- Section Separator --- Check our map to find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | Stats NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- If data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and, for researchers, the ability to request detailed COVID-19 data. COVID-19 data resources | Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 1-10 of 1083 updates 23 Feb 2023 From 1 March the Pfizer bivalent vaccine will replace the existing booster. From 1 April, an additional booster will be available for those eligible. 23 Feb 2023 Watch the COVID-19 bivalent vaccine rollout announcement. 08 Feb 2023 Tamariki aged 6 months to 4 years who are immunocompromised or have multiple or complex health conditions are eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine. 08 Feb 2023 From 13 February, you may need to pay for COVID-19-related visits to your healthcare provider. 04 Jan 2023 The Government is reiterating advice to international travellers to test if they have COVID-19 symptoms when they arrive and to take free RATs at the airport. 19 Dec 2022 Make sure you’re prepared if you get COVID-19 while on holiday so we can all enjoy a safe-as summer. 16 Dec 2022 Medsafe has given provisional approval. The vaccine for immunocompromised children under 5 years old will be available in February. 14 Dec 2022 The development of myocarditis in this individual was possibly due to vaccination with the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. 05 Dec 2022 A Royal Commission will prepare New Zealand for future pandemics through lessons learned from COVID-19. 16 Nov 2022 Broader second booster access will support higher vaccination rates among Māori and Pacific peoples and provide them with additional protection.
If you are at risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19 you will still get free healthcare. With the Omicron variant circulating, most people can recover at home. This is due to very high vaccination levels and widespread natural immunity. Additionally, with easy access to testing and self-isolation, we can focus on those who are more vulnerable. If you are at higher risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19, you are still eligible for free healthcare from your doctor. This protects those who are most at risk of getting very ill from COVID-19, including: people with certain high-risk medical conditions Māori Pacific peoples some disabled people those aged 65 and over anyone else that meets the criteria for access to antiviral medicines refugees and asylum seekers people experiencing homelessness or who are in transitional housing people living in certain remote and rural locations who do not have easy access to healthcare services. High-risk medical conditions Who can get antivirals If you are isolating at home, you should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 if you need advice or guidance on managing your symptoms. You can also contact your local pharmacist or your healthcare provider if you need to see someone. If you require hospital-level care, it remains free. If you have COVID-19 Free rapid antigen tests (RATs) are available for everyone from participating collection centres. How to get a RAT Vaccinations are free and available at health providers and pharmacies. COVID-19 vaccines The best ways to continue to protect yourself and others are: test when you are feeling unwell being up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccinations wearing a face mask.
The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 11am. Speakers: Minister of Health Ayesha Verrall.
All New Zealanders aged 30 and over will be able to access the new COVID-19 bivalent booster from April as part of the Government’s plan to keep Kiwis safe and take pressure off our health system. The new bivalent vaccine will replace the existing Pfizer booster and is considered likely to be more effective against Omicron subvariants. Bivalent vaccines work by combining 2 strains of a virus, which prompts the body to create antibodies against both strains, providing a greater level of protection. From 1 April, anyone 30 years or over will be eligible to receive the bivalent vaccine, as long as it has been at least 6 months since their last COVID-19 booster or positive COVID-19 test. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 will also be able to receive an additional booster, regardless of how many doses they have previously had. As well as broadening the criteria from April, from 1 March anyone currently eligible for a COVID-19 booster will be able to get the new bivalent vaccine. We know vaccination is the best protection against the virus, and these actions will provide added protection to a larger number of adult New Zealanders. The latest report from the Ministry of Health indicated 8,220 cases over the previous week so the virus is definitely still circulating out there. We are also planning for older New Zealanders and those most at risk of getting sick to get a flu jab at the same time as their COVID-19 booster. This will be part of a ‘one and done’ approach to help people stay well this winter. Because it may be a while since your previous boosters, now is a good time to check your records on My Covid Record. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) Vaccination against COVID-19 remains free. Getting boosted is important for your health and keeping you out of hospital this winter. Those currently eligible for the COVID-19 booster are encouraged to make a booking by visiting BookMyVaccine.nz (external link) or calling the COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). People who will become eligible for an additional booster from 1 April will be able to make a booking later in March. You can find more information about getting a booster on this website. Including who is currently eligible and how to get a booster. COVID-19 boosters From 1 April, anyone who has completed a primary course will be eligible to get another booster if you are: aged 30 and over or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. It will need to be at least 6 months since your last COVID-19 booster or a positive COVID-19 test. High-risk groups include: people aged 65 years and over Māori and Pacific peoples aged 50 years and over residents of aged care and disability care facilities severely immunocompromised people people aged 16 years and over who have a medical condition that increases the risk of severe breakthrough COVID-19 illness people aged 16 years and over who live with a disability with significant or complex health needs or multiple comorbidities. In all instances the additional booster dose can only be administered to eligible people who have completed a primary COVID-19 vaccination course, and whose most recent COVID-19 vaccine or positive COVID-19 test was at least 6 months ago, irrespective of how many prior booster doses that person has received.
New Zealand’s settings will remain unchanged following a final review for the year. That includes the retention of 7-day mandatory isolation for positive cases, in order to break the chain of transmission and keep cases and hospitalisations at a manageable level. The Government continues to provide masks, rapid antigen tests (RATs) and vaccines free from thousands of locations around the country. RATs can be ordered from the online requestor site or over the phone, and masks and vaccines from your local pharmacy or through your GP. Request free RATs | Health Hub (external link) Ahead of summer, we are encouraging New Zealanders to take simple precautions to keep a lid on COVID-19 and ensure our hard-working health workers get the break they deserve. If you are eligible for a booster, get one now. If you haven’t had your first or second dose, it’s not too late. Getting boosted significantly reduces your chances of ending up in hospital needing care. Making sure you’re up to date with your vaccines should be the first thing on your to-do list before Christmas. We recently extended second booster eligibility to Māori and Pacific peoples aged 40 and over, if you’re now eligible then book in and get boosted before going to see whānau or heading away for the holidays. COVID-19 vaccine boosters Many people have been taking advantage of available antiviral medications, with 4000 doses being administered each week currently. We know this has been keeping people out of hospital and reduced the impact of COVID-19 on the health system. You can get antiviral medication if you’re eligible and test positive for COVID-19. For information and eligibility criteria speak to your GP or pharmacist. Free antiviral medicines to treat COVID-19 | Health Hub (external link) With many people travelling around the country over the coming weeks, it’s important that everyone plays their part. Get prepared now so we can all have safe-as summer. Call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for free COVID health advice anytime, even on public holidays. For any other non-urgent health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 for free. 0800 11 12 13 or text 8988 . It can help with vaccines, testing, face mask exemptions, managing COVID-19, and any other health concerns you may have. It is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Displaying 11-20 of 1083 updates 16 Nov 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 18 Oct 2022 The Government is narrowing the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act and removing the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. 13 Oct 2022 The Omicron subvariant BQ1.1 has been circulating in the Northern Hemisphere and has now been found in New Zealand. 30 Sep 2022 An analysis of deaths from COVID-19 in New Zealand shows being up to date with your vaccines is the single best way to reduce the risk of dying from COVID-19. 21 Sep 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 15 Sep 2022 The Ministry of Health has released long COVID guidelines for health professionals, individuals and those caring for people with long COVID. 13 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 Sep 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 12 Sep 2022 The most recent health advice now tells us that with the lowest cases and hospitalisations since February, we are in a good position to move forward. 09 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 1041-1050 of 1083 updates 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 1051-1060 of 1083 updates 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine.
Displaying 1061-1070 of 1083 updates 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
Displaying 1071-1080 of 1083 updates 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials.
Displaying 1081-1083 of 1083 updates 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 21-30 of 1083 updates 09 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Sep 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 06 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 29 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 31-40 of 1083 updates 26 Aug 2022 New appointments have been made to the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group as well as extending the term of the group until December. 26 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 18 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Aug 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 16 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 41-50 of 1083 updates 15 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2022 New Zealand will remain at the Orange traffic light setting, while hospitalisations remain elevated and pressure on the health system continues through winter. 08 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Aug 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 03 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 51-60 of 1083 updates 02 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Jul 2022 New Zealand’s international border opens to all visitors, including from non-visa waiver countries, and international students from 11:59pm, 31 July 2022. 31 Jul 2022 The same vaccination rules for passengers arriving by air will apply to arrivals on cruise ships and recreational vessels such as ocean-going yachts. 29 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Home News and data Media conferences Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. --- Section Separator --- From 1 March the Pfizer bivalent vaccine will replace the existing booster. From 1 April, an additional booster will be available for those eligible. Watch the COVID-19 bivalent vaccine rollout announcement. Tamariki aged 6 months to 4 years who are immunocompromised or have multiple or complex health conditions are eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. If you get symptoms with Omicron, you are likely to get them within 3 days of infection. But it could take up to 8 days after infection. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. Some people with COVID-19 can pass it on to others 1 or 2 days before showing symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. If you have COVID-19 Some people who have tested positive for COVID-19 can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you are eligible, you do not need to pay for COVID-19-related medical costs or healthcare when you get COVID-19. If you develop long COVID and need further appointments, you will need to pay for your visits to your doctor as you normally would. This includes prescription dispensing fees. Eligible people include: people with certain high-risk medical conditions Māori Pacific peoples some disabled people those aged 65 and over anyone else that meets the criteria for access to antiviral medicines refugees and asylum seekers people experiencing homelessness or who are in transitional housing people living in certain remote and rural locations who do not have easy access to healthcare services. High-risk medical conditions Who can get antivirals For most people reinfection with COVID-19 is not likely to be more severe than previous infections. But you can experience different symptoms. Every time you get COVID-19, it increases your risk of getting long COVID and other medical issues. If you do get COVID-19 again you will have access to the same advice, help and support you would receive for a new COVID-19 infection. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection: there is no need to take a RAT you should stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you have an underlying health condition or your symptoms are getting worse, you should get advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. Get a COVID-19 test If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. If you have COVID-19 If your test is negative: your symptoms could be another illness, such as a cold or flu and your symptoms continue, you should repeat a RAT 48 hours later if your result is still negative, stay home until at least 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why air ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off a surface is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. Long COVID Healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Healthy habits include handwashing and wearing a face mask in crowded indoor places. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means if you have COVID-19, you are far less likely to: get very sick need to go to hospital infect other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, this protection can decrease over time. Booster doses reduce the chance of serious illness and lower the risk of spreading COVID-19 to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. If you get symptoms with Omicron, you are likely to get them within 3 days of infection. But it could take up to 8 days after infection. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. Some people with COVID-19 can pass it on to others 1 or 2 days before showing symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. If you have COVID-19 Some people who have tested positive for COVID-19 can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you are eligible, you do not need to pay for COVID-19-related medical costs or healthcare when you get COVID-19. If you develop long COVID and need further appointments, you will need to pay for your visits to your doctor as you normally would. This includes prescription dispensing fees. Eligible people include: people with certain high-risk medical conditions Māori Pacific peoples some disabled people those aged 65 and over anyone else that meets the criteria for access to antiviral medicines refugees and asylum seekers people experiencing homelessness or who are in transitional housing people living in certain remote and rural locations who do not have easy access to healthcare services. High-risk medical conditions Who can get antivirals --- Section Separator --- For most people reinfection with COVID-19 is not likely to be more severe than previous infections. But you can experience different symptoms. Every time you get COVID-19, it increases your risk of getting long COVID and other medical issues. If you do get COVID-19 again you will have access to the same advice, help and support you would receive for a new COVID-19 infection. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection: there is no need to take a RAT you should stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you have an underlying health condition or your symptoms are getting worse, you should get advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. Get a COVID-19 test If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. If you have COVID-19 If your test is negative: your symptoms could be another illness, such as a cold or flu and your symptoms continue, you should repeat a RAT 48 hours later if your result is still negative, stay home until at least 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why air ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off a surface is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. Long COVID --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Healthy habits include handwashing and wearing a face mask in crowded indoor places. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means if you have COVID-19, you are far less likely to: get very sick need to go to hospital infect other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, this protection can decrease over time. Booster doses reduce the chance of serious illness and lower the risk of spreading COVID-19 to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Infection and immunity Wastewater testing
Home Prepare and stay safe People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if you: have compromised immunity have a high-risk medical condition are older are an infant under the age of 1 month are a child under the age of 2 who was born premature (less than 37 weeks) are a child with multiple chronic conditions. Our restrictions have eased, but we still need to keep up healthy habits to keep ourselves and our whānau safe. Our high vaccination rates mean we can slowly start to focus on returning to a normal way of life. For some people, the easing of restrictions can be stressful — especially if we have friends or whānau who are vulnerable. It is okay to feel scared or anxious as we adjust to the new settings. You can decide what additional measures suit you best. Let whānau, friends, neighbours and colleagues know what they can do to support you. If you are worried, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Get your booster if you are eligible. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition. Keep a safe distance away from people you do not live with — except for your carer or support workers. Wear a face mask whenever you leave home. If you have visitors at home, ask them to wear a face mask. Ask friends or whānau who do not live with you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT) before they visit. Stay at home if you are unwell. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms as soon as you start to feel unwell — even if the symptoms are mild. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Try to avoid large crowds — if the supermarket is busy, try again later, or use other options like click and collect. If possible, arrange to meet with friends and whānau outside. If it makes you feel more comfortable, you can ask them to wear a face mask. If you are gathering indoors, let fresh air in to reduce the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19. Even though the number of people who can gather indoors has increased, organisers still need to follow public health guidelines to keep everyone safe. You could ask the organisers for a livestream option, if you feel more comfortable participating from home. Stay connected — if you are not ready to start socialising in large groups, find other ways to keep in touch with close friends and whānau. If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. You still need to order through the Request free COVID-19 RAT kits website. Request free RATs | Ministry of Health (external link) (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) (external link) Even if you have had COVID-19, you should still get any COVID-19 vaccinations you are eligible for. We recommend you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. If you are at high risk of getting seriously ill if you do test positive for COVID-19 again, we recommend you talk to your doctor or health professional for advice on the best timing for your vaccinations. You may be able to receive your vaccination sooner. As restrictions ease, your employer may ask you to return to the workplace. We encourage you to talk to your employer about flexible working arrangements. If you have been working from home for a long time, it can take a while to adjust back to working in an office or other workplace. Let your colleagues and employer know if there is something they can do to make working easier and safer for you. If you work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working. If your child is immunocompromised, or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk to their school or kura about whether changes can be made at their school. The best way to protect your tamariki is by getting them vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination advice for 5 to 11 year olds You can support friends and whānau by: meeting outside where there is better ventilation. You may want to wear a face mask if it is difficult to keep a safe distance away isolating away from them if you test positive for COVID-19, or are unwell offering to drop off groceries or essential supplies not visiting them if you are unwell keeping in touch with them, and checking up on their physical and mental wellbeing checking if their aged residential care facility has extra measures in place for visitors being kind and showing compassion for others. Give other people space, and keep a safe distance away. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support You can find support to access food and other essential supplies, and if you need help with accommodation. COVID-19 support Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- You are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if you: have compromised immunity have a high-risk medical condition are older are an infant under the age of 1 month are a child under the age of 2 who was born premature (less than 37 weeks) are a child with multiple chronic conditions. --- Section Separator --- Our restrictions have eased, but we still need to keep up healthy habits to keep ourselves and our whānau safe. Our high vaccination rates mean we can slowly start to focus on returning to a normal way of life. For some people, the easing of restrictions can be stressful — especially if we have friends or whānau who are vulnerable. It is okay to feel scared or anxious as we adjust to the new settings. You can decide what additional measures suit you best. Let whānau, friends, neighbours and colleagues know what they can do to support you. If you are worried, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Get your booster if you are eligible. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition. Keep a safe distance away from people you do not live with — except for your carer or support workers. Wear a face mask whenever you leave home. If you have visitors at home, ask them to wear a face mask. Ask friends or whānau who do not live with you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT) before they visit. Stay at home if you are unwell. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms as soon as you start to feel unwell — even if the symptoms are mild. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Try to avoid large crowds — if the supermarket is busy, try again later, or use other options like click and collect. If possible, arrange to meet with friends and whānau outside. If it makes you feel more comfortable, you can ask them to wear a face mask. If you are gathering indoors, let fresh air in to reduce the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19. Even though the number of people who can gather indoors has increased, organisers still need to follow public health guidelines to keep everyone safe. You could ask the organisers for a livestream option, if you feel more comfortable participating from home. Stay connected — if you are not ready to start socialising in large groups, find other ways to keep in touch with close friends and whānau. If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. You still need to order through the Request free COVID-19 RAT kits website. Request free RATs | Ministry of Health (external link) (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) (external link) Even if you have had COVID-19, you should still get any COVID-19 vaccinations you are eligible for. We recommend you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. If you are at high risk of getting seriously ill if you do test positive for COVID-19 again, we recommend you talk to your doctor or health professional for advice on the best timing for your vaccinations. You may be able to receive your vaccination sooner. --- Section Separator --- As restrictions ease, your employer may ask you to return to the workplace. We encourage you to talk to your employer about flexible working arrangements. If you have been working from home for a long time, it can take a while to adjust back to working in an office or other workplace. Let your colleagues and employer know if there is something they can do to make working easier and safer for you. If you work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working. If your child is immunocompromised, or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk to their school or kura about whether changes can be made at their school. The best way to protect your tamariki is by getting them vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination advice for 5 to 11 year olds --- Section Separator --- You can support friends and whānau by: meeting outside where there is better ventilation. You may want to wear a face mask if it is difficult to keep a safe distance away isolating away from them if you test positive for COVID-19, or are unwell offering to drop off groceries or essential supplies not visiting them if you are unwell keeping in touch with them, and checking up on their physical and mental wellbeing checking if their aged residential care facility has extra measures in place for visitors being kind and showing compassion for others. Give other people space, and keep a safe distance away. --- Section Separator --- There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support You can find support to access food and other essential supplies, and if you need help with accommodation. COVID-19 support Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Protect yourself and others Looking after your mental wellbeing COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Prepare and stay safe Preparing to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you must self-isolate for 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket, or to pick up essential supplies, like medication. You will need to have a plan for someone to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you need to self-isolate. Download: COVID-19 isolation plan [PDF, 86 KB] Household Contacts no longer need to isolate for 7 days. If you live with someone who tests positive for COVID-19, we recommend you: take a rapid antigen test (RAT) each day for 5 days avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts Make a plan for how you will get food and essential supplies. You may want to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs, or you can use a food delivery service. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything dropped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. If you need support while self-isolating Put together a hygiene kit with things like hand sanitiser, gloves, face masks, cleaning products and extra rubbish bags. If you have people in your household who need extra support, make a plan for their care. If you have shared custody arrangements, talk to your child’s other parent or caregiver to decide what will happen. Looking after your physical and mental wellbeing is important while you are at home. Try to think of ways you can get fresh air, or do some exercise. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood — but you cannot use any shared facilities, like a public swimming pool. Keep a safe distance from others when exercising. Looking after your mental wellbeing Check that you have basic medical supplies to help manage your symptoms. This could include pain relief, a thermometer, nasal spray, lozenges and your regular medications. If you are isolating and need medicine, you can contact your doctor or local pharmacy to arrange a delivery, or ask friends and whānau to collect it for you. Make a list of whānau information — include NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medications or medical supplies each person will need if they have to self-isolate. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, after-hours services, and any support agencies. Talk to your employer and child’s school so you and your tamariki are set up for working and learning from home. If you cannot work from home, talk to your employer about your pay and sick leave entitlements. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) Everyone’s living situation is different — you may be in a large family, living with flatmates, or you may live alone. For some people, it will be easier to limit contact with other household members if they have access to their own bathroom and bedroom. Talk with the people you live with to make a plan for how you will manage any shared spaces. Share your plan with wider whānau and neighbours and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. How to self-isolate Make a list of activities you can do to help pass the time. Have a plan with friends and whānau to stay connected online. Check you have enough pet food and supplies. If you are unable to look after a pet, ask someone else to care for them while you are self-isolating. There are some different things you will need to plan for if you get COVID-19 while you are away from home and travelling. If you get COVID-19 while travelling Work out how to let people know you are self-isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 88 KB] --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you must self-isolate for 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket, or to pick up essential supplies, like medication. You will need to have a plan for someone to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you need to self-isolate. Download: COVID-19 isolation plan [PDF, 86 KB] --- Section Separator --- Household Contacts no longer need to isolate for 7 days. If you live with someone who tests positive for COVID-19, we recommend you: take a rapid antigen test (RAT) each day for 5 days avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Make a plan for how you will get food and essential supplies. You may want to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs, or you can use a food delivery service. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything dropped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. If you need support while self-isolating Put together a hygiene kit with things like hand sanitiser, gloves, face masks, cleaning products and extra rubbish bags. If you have people in your household who need extra support, make a plan for their care. If you have shared custody arrangements, talk to your child’s other parent or caregiver to decide what will happen. Looking after your physical and mental wellbeing is important while you are at home. Try to think of ways you can get fresh air, or do some exercise. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood — but you cannot use any shared facilities, like a public swimming pool. Keep a safe distance from others when exercising. Looking after your mental wellbeing Check that you have basic medical supplies to help manage your symptoms. This could include pain relief, a thermometer, nasal spray, lozenges and your regular medications. If you are isolating and need medicine, you can contact your doctor or local pharmacy to arrange a delivery, or ask friends and whānau to collect it for you. Make a list of whānau information — include NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medications or medical supplies each person will need if they have to self-isolate. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, after-hours services, and any support agencies. Talk to your employer and child’s school so you and your tamariki are set up for working and learning from home. If you cannot work from home, talk to your employer about your pay and sick leave entitlements. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) Everyone’s living situation is different — you may be in a large family, living with flatmates, or you may live alone. For some people, it will be easier to limit contact with other household members if they have access to their own bathroom and bedroom. Talk with the people you live with to make a plan for how you will manage any shared spaces. Share your plan with wider whānau and neighbours and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. How to self-isolate Make a list of activities you can do to help pass the time. Have a plan with friends and whānau to stay connected online. Check you have enough pet food and supplies. If you are unable to look after a pet, ask someone else to care for them while you are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- There are some different things you will need to plan for if you get COVID-19 while you are away from home and travelling. If you get COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Work out how to let people know you are self-isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 88 KB] --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Protect yourself and others Looking after your mental wellbeing COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Prepare and stay safe When to call for help --- Section Separator --- If there is an emergency, and there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. If it is not an emergency, but you need advice about your symptoms or general health advice about COVID-19, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Heathline is available 24 hours a day. Most people who get COVID-19 should be able to manage their symptoms safely at home. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. Call 111 immediately if you or someone in your household: has trouble breathing, or is experiencing shortness of breath has severe chest pain feels faint or dizzy or becomes unconscious. Tell them you or someone in your household has COVID-19 when you call, so the paramedics can care for you safely. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. If you need medical advice about your symptoms, or other health advice while you and your household are isolating, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Healthline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face mask. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. Include face masks and other supplies, for example hand sanitiser, in your emergency grab bag. Move to a safe location and stay there until you get more advice. Immediate safety​ overrides COVID-19 isolation requirements. As soon as you and your whānau are safe, try to maintain physical distancing wherever possible. Keep a record of where you have been and who you have been with while you have been moving to safety. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If there is an emergency, and there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. If it is not an emergency, but you need advice about your symptoms or general health advice about COVID-19, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Heathline is available 24 hours a day. --- Section Separator --- Most people who get COVID-19 should be able to manage their symptoms safely at home. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. Call 111 immediately if you or someone in your household: has trouble breathing, or is experiencing shortness of breath has severe chest pain feels faint or dizzy or becomes unconscious. Tell them you or someone in your household has COVID-19 when you call, so the paramedics can care for you safely. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. If you need medical advice about your symptoms, or other health advice while you and your household are isolating, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Healthline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face mask. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. --- Section Separator --- If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. Include face masks and other supplies, for example hand sanitiser, in your emergency grab bag. Move to a safe location and stay there until you get more advice. Immediate safety​ overrides COVID-19 isolation requirements. As soon as you and your whānau are safe, try to maintain physical distancing wherever possible. Keep a record of where you have been and who you have been with while you have been moving to safety. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Protect yourself and others Looking after your mental wellbeing COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 If you have COVID-19 you need to self-isolate for 7 days. Find out what else you need to do. --- Section Separator --- Find detailed advice about managing your symptoms and what to do while you are self-isolating on Te Whatu Ora — Heath New Zealand's COVID-19 Health Hub. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have taken a rapid antigen test (RAT), report your positive result online or by calling the helpline. Online: My Covid Record (external link) Call: 0800 222 478 (choose option 3) How to report your RAT result Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand will then send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers to confirm your positive result. This has information about self-isolation, support options, and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you had a PCR test, you will get a text message with your result. If your employer asks to see proof that you must isolate, you can use this text message. You do not need a medical certificate from a doctor. --- Section Separator --- You must self-isolate for 7 days while you recover. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Create your household isolation and testing timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Your Household Contacts do not need to isolate. They should test daily for 5 days. If they test positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. Advice for your Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- You must stay at home and avoid contact with other people in your household. Find out what to do when self-isolating, including permitted reasons to leave self-isolation, and how to ventilate your home. How to self-isolate Ventilation and COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Complete Te Whatu Ora’s contact tracing form using your 6-digit access code. (You can find this code in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers .) For most people, the form will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and do not complete the form within 12 hours, you will get a phone call. How to use the contact tracing form You also need to tell your close contacts you have COVID-19. This includes the people you live with, and your workplace or school. Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19 — especially if they are fully vaccinated and boosted — are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to recover at home. Symptoms for COVID-19 tend to show 2 to 5 days after a person has been infected but can take up to 14 days. Omicron causes similar symptoms to other variants. Advice on managing your COVID-19 symptoms | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) If you need advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If your symptoms get worse or you need urgent medical care, call your local healthcare provider or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 If you or the person you are caring for develops difficulty breathing, severe chest pain, fainting or becomes unconscious, call 111 immediately. If you require hospital-level care, it is free. Free antivirals to treat COVID-19 are available for people who are at risk of developing serious illness and for some people who have tested positive for COVID-19. Medicines to treat COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You can end your self-isolation 7 days after your symptoms started or you tested positive, whichever came first. You cannot end your self-isolation early, even if a later test is negative during the 7 days. You do not need to wait for an official message to leave self-isolation. You may receive a text message confirming your self-isolation period has ended. You do not need a negative RAT result to return to work or school. Some people can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can coordinate extra support for you if you need it. You may get COVID-19 while you are away from home. If you test positive while travelling, here is what you need to know. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after your initial COVID-19 symptoms. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. It can be hard supporting your tamariki (children) when they need to isolate with COVID-19. The COVID-19 Health Hub has advice on how to make things easier for children and parents. If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand, you will need to isolate for 7 days. Follow the isolation advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can coordinate extra support for you if you need it. You may get COVID-19 while you are away from home. If you test positive while travelling, here is what you need to know. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after your initial COVID-19 symptoms. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. It can be hard supporting your tamariki (children) when they need to isolate with COVID-19. The COVID-19 Health Hub has advice on how to make things easier for children and parents. If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand, you will need to isolate for 7 days. Follow the isolation advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub.
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If your local Civil Defence authority tells you to evacuate because of an emergency, follow the evacuation advice. Your immediate safety​ overrides COVID-19 isolation requirements. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. If you can, and it is safe to do so, maintain physical distance from others. Make sure you include face masks and hand sanitiser in your grab bag. If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Use the COVID-19 Health Hub to work out your isolation timeline: Create your isolation timeline (external link) Stay at home — do not go to work, school or any public places. Avoid contact with people in your household. For example, sleep by yourself if you can, and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face mask that covers your nose and mouth when near others. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood. Do not visit any shared exercise facility, such as a swimming pool. You can get deliveries, such as food and medicine from whānau and friends or by ordering supplies online. Identify a safe drop-off point outside the house to leave supplies. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes things you touch often, like door handles, light switches and phones. Do your own laundry. You cannot end your self-isolation early, even if a later test is negative during the 7 days. Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. Ventilation and COVID-19 You can download and print posters for your home to tell people you are self-isolating: We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 88 KB] Do not leave the house for any reason, unless it is a permitted reason — such as urgent medical care or exercising. If you cannot work from home during this time, your employer (or you, if you are self-employed) may be able to apply for leave support. Do not prepare food for others. Do not share items with people in your household. For example, dishes, toothbrushes and towels. Do not have visitors. This includes tradespeople, unless it is an emergency. If you have a support carer, they can continue to provide essential care. If you are unwell and have symptoms, do not do strenuous, high-impact exercise. Stick to gentle, familiar exercise. Do not get a COVID-19 vaccination until you have recovered. You are allowed to leave the place you are self-isolating for the following reasons. You must always wear a mask. Do not use public transport, taxis or rideshare vehicles. You can: have any medical examination and testing required access essential health services for treatment that cannot wait until you finish self-isolation attend any court, tribunal, New Zealand Parole Board hearing or other judicial institution you are required to attend move to another place of self-isolation to protect your own or another person’s life, health, or safety visit a dying relative who is not expected to live beyond your self-isolation visit the body of a relative before a funeral or tangihanga , if you will not be able to visit the body after your self-isolation. You are allowed to exercise outside your home while self-isolating. You can exercise in your neighbourhood, but not using any shared facility, such as a swimming pool or gym. You cannot exercise with other people, unless they are part of your household. Be mindful to: keep your distance from others stick to gentle, familiar exercise — do not do anything risky where you may need rescuing carry a face mask — you do not need to wear a face mask, but you may feel more comfortable doing so. --- Section Separator --- If your local Civil Defence authority tells you to evacuate because of an emergency, follow the evacuation advice. Your immediate safety​ overrides COVID-19 isolation requirements. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. If you can, and it is safe to do so, maintain physical distance from others. Make sure you include face masks and hand sanitiser in your grab bag. --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Use the COVID-19 Health Hub to work out your isolation timeline: Create your isolation timeline (external link) Stay at home — do not go to work, school or any public places. Avoid contact with people in your household. For example, sleep by yourself if you can, and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face mask that covers your nose and mouth when near others. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood. Do not visit any shared exercise facility, such as a swimming pool. You can get deliveries, such as food and medicine from whānau and friends or by ordering supplies online. Identify a safe drop-off point outside the house to leave supplies. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes things you touch often, like door handles, light switches and phones. Do your own laundry. You cannot end your self-isolation early, even if a later test is negative during the 7 days. Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. Ventilation and COVID-19 You can download and print posters for your home to tell people you are self-isolating: We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 88 KB] --- Section Separator --- Do not leave the house for any reason, unless it is a permitted reason — such as urgent medical care or exercising. If you cannot work from home during this time, your employer (or you, if you are self-employed) may be able to apply for leave support. Do not prepare food for others. Do not share items with people in your household. For example, dishes, toothbrushes and towels. Do not have visitors. This includes tradespeople, unless it is an emergency. If you have a support carer, they can continue to provide essential care. If you are unwell and have symptoms, do not do strenuous, high-impact exercise. Stick to gentle, familiar exercise. Do not get a COVID-19 vaccination until you have recovered. --- Section Separator --- You are allowed to leave the place you are self-isolating for the following reasons. You must always wear a mask. Do not use public transport, taxis or rideshare vehicles. You can: have any medical examination and testing required access essential health services for treatment that cannot wait until you finish self-isolation attend any court, tribunal, New Zealand Parole Board hearing or other judicial institution you are required to attend move to another place of self-isolation to protect your own or another person’s life, health, or safety visit a dying relative who is not expected to live beyond your self-isolation visit the body of a relative before a funeral or tangihanga , if you will not be able to visit the body after your self-isolation. You are allowed to exercise outside your home while self-isolating. You can exercise in your neighbourhood, but not using any shared facility, such as a swimming pool or gym. You cannot exercise with other people, unless they are part of your household. Be mindful to: keep your distance from others stick to gentle, familiar exercise — do not do anything risky where you may need rescuing carry a face mask — you do not need to wear a face mask, but you may feel more comfortable doing so. --- Section Separator --- Medicines to treat COVID-19 How to self-isolate Help when you are self-isolating If you get COVID-19 while travelling After you have had COVID-19 Long COVID
