Whether positive or negative, you should report the results of your RAT. Reporting the result means you can get the help you need as early as possible. What you need to know Have a safe-as summer Travel to New Zealand Get a booster COVID-19 symptoms Get a test Antiviral medicines Household Contacts Financial support Weekly case numbers Alternate formats Translated information --- Section Separator --- Tamariki aged 6 months to 4 years who are immunocompromised or have multiple or complex health conditions are eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine. From 13 February, you may need to pay for COVID-19-related visits to your healthcare provider. The Government is reiterating advice to international travellers to test if they have COVID-19 symptoms when they arrive and to take free RATs at the airport. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You must wear one when visiting healthcare services. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. What you can and cannot do during your 7 days of self-isolation. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You must wear one when visiting healthcare services. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. What you can and cannot do during your 7 days of self-isolation.
Home About this site Contact us Find contact information for Unite against COVID-19 Communications, Te Whatu Ora Health New Zealand. I am looking for... How to order, take and report a RAT What to do if you test positive Self-isolation rules Antiviral medicines Financial support --- Section Separator --- For COVID-19 health advice call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. --- Section Separator --- You can find guidance and submit an Official Information Request to the COVID-19 Group on the DPMC website: How to make an Official Information Act request (external link) You can find guidance on how to submit an Official Information Act request to Te Whatu Ora on its website: Official Information Act requests | Te Whatu Ora (external link) Find information and advice translated into different languages: Translations Find information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs: Alternate formats Immigration New Zealand can answer questions about travel eligibility and visa categories. Contact Immigration NZ | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you run or own a business, you can find information on the business.govt website: COVID-19: Information for businesses (external link) Contact us | business.govt.nz (external link) We have a selection of posters available on this website. Download posters All our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, can be viewed and downloaded through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered directly to you, your business or your community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) You will need to contact the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. You can send a query through an online form on the Employment website or call them. Online form | employment.govt.nz (external link) Call: 0800 20 90 20 Call 111 immediately. If you have COVID-19, tell them when you ring. You need to contact your care co-ordinator or call Healthline. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19response@health.govt.nz There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 All MIQ facilities are now closed. Isolation and quarantine | Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment (external link) If you have a health concern after your vaccination, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor. You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19vaccine@health.govt.nz Visit the Work and Income website for urgent financial support and ongoing needs. You can apply for a main benefit online and check your eligibility for food assistance. Work and Income website (external link) (external link) 0800 559 009 (MSD General Line) 0800 552 002 (Seniors 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Students) In MyMSD you can check your payments, tell MSD about changes and apply for a benefit or NZ Super: Use MyMSD (external link) You can also use the COVID-19 financial support tool on this website to see what support is available to you. Use the financial support tool If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with isolation rules. Report a breach online (external link) Face masks If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements How to report false or misleading information that you see can be found on this website. Report false or misleading information For COVID-19 operational media enquiries, contact the Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand media team: Email: hnzmedia@health.govt.nz For COVID-19 policy media enquiries, contact the Ministry of Health media team: Email: media@health.govt.nz If you have questions or feedback about the app, QR code posters or any problems using them, you will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Call 0800 800 606 You must enable JavaScript to submit this form --- Section Separator --- Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. If you are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to make a call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in alternate formats, including: New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print Audio Braille Audio description. Alternate formats Many government agencies have language support available if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages. Translations --- Section Separator --- If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach --- Section Separator --- You can contact Unite against COVID-19 Communications by using our online form above or by sending us a letter. If you are sending us feedback about our website, Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage you have feedback about. Postal address: Unite against COVID-19 Communications Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand PO Box 793 Wellington New Zealand 6140 Follow Unite against COVID-19 and Te Whatu Ora Health — New Zealand on social media. Social media
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. You might be interested in Children aged 5 to 11 Check your eligibility Children 6 months to 4 years Proof of vaccination Using My Covid Record About Novavax Vaccine advice for disabled people COVID-19 vaccine data --- Section Separator --- Tamariki aged 6 months to 4 years who are immunocompromised or have multiple or complex health conditions are eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine. From 9 February a version of the paediatric Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine will be available for young children who are at higher risk of severe disease if they were to get COVID-19. COVID-19 vaccine available for younger children at higher risk of severe illness --- Section Separator --- Talk to the COVID Vaccination Healthline 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. Call 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity stronger for longer. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. All vaccination mandates have ended. For health and safety, some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated against COVID-19. Find and download flyers and resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity stronger for longer. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. All vaccination mandates have ended. For health and safety, some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated against COVID-19. Find and download flyers and resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Find and download flyers and posters about COVID-19 booster vaccinations.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines. --- Section Separator --- Children aged 6 months to 4 years who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about eligibility, effectiveness, and providing consent. Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. The Novavax COVID-19 vaccine is also available for people aged 18 and over. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. --- Section Separator --- Children aged 6 months to 4 years who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about eligibility, effectiveness, and providing consent. Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. The Novavax COVID-19 vaccine is also available for people aged 18 and over. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 The COVID-19 vaccine protects your child, your whānau and your community. It is free and available now for everyone aged 5 and over. --- Section Separator --- Tamariki aged 6 months to 4 years who are immunocompromised or have multiple or complex health conditions are eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine. From 9 February a version of the paediatric Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine will be available for young children who are at higher risk of severe disease if they were to get COVID-19. COVID-19 vaccine available for younger children at higher risk of severe illness --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. Like adults, if your child is infected with COVID-19 they may transmit the virus to other people. Immunising tamariki helps protect whānau members whose health makes them more vulnerable to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children and young people who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Tamariki aged 5 to 11 receive a children’s (paediatric) version of the Pfizer vaccine, with a lower dose and smaller volume. It is also given using a smaller needle. Children are not eligible for a booster. To be fully protected, children need 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine. It is recommended the first and second dose are at least 8 weeks apart. The interval can be shortened to a minimum of 21 days if needed — for example, if the child is starting significant immunosuppression treatment. You will need to discuss this with the child's doctor. --- Section Separator --- If children and young people who have been vaccinated do develop COVID-19, they are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. For children aged 5 to 11, clinical trial results showed the Pfizer vaccine was 90.7% effective against getting COVID-19 symptoms, and no participants developed severe COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is responsible for approving the use of all medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. They only approve a vaccine in Aotearoa once they are satisfied it has met strict standards for safety, efficacy and quality. The trials in 5 to 11-year-olds with a child dose of the Pfizer showed the vaccine was safe, and the side effects were generally mild. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand Research and data on vaccinating children aged 5 to 11 | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Explain that it might hurt for a short time, just like their other childhood immunisations. Tell them there will be a small needle and that they will feel a sharp scratch or sting briefly but then it will be over. They may have a sore arm, fever, headache or feel tired afterwards. It is important to tell them why they are getting vaccinated. Let them know the vaccine will protect them against COVID-19, and protect their family, their grandparents, their community, and other kids at school who may be more at risk from COVID-19 if they catch it. Make sure they know they will need 2 doses. Give them time to ask the vaccinator questions if they have them. Have some games or toys ready so you can distract them during their vaccination and entertain them while you wait for 15 minutes afterwards. Arrange a fun activity or treat to look forward to after the appointment. Tell them that they might feel a bit unwell or a day or two, and arrange to spend some extra time with them if you can. What to expect after your child's vaccination [PDF, 260 KB] --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand that offer vaccinations for tamariki. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Check the appointment availability map first — it shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. You can choose the child vaccine (5 to 11) or adult vaccine (12+) from the dropdown menu. Appointment availability map | Book My Vaccine (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz 0800 28 29 26 It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. It is a good idea to have your child's NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Not all COVID-19 vaccination sites will be offering vaccinations to 5 to 11-year-olds. Find a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre near you --- Section Separator --- If you would like to talk through any questions or worries, you can call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori communities | Karawhiua (external link) Information for Pacific Peoples | Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccines used in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks or more. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more. For children aged 6 months to 4 years, the vaccine is a 3-dose course. It is recommended the second dose is given 3 weeks after the first. Followed by a third dose given at least 8 weeks after the second dose. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients. How the Pfizer vaccine works | Ministry of Health (external link) The AstraZeneca vaccine is no longer available in New Zealand. The Novavax (Nuvaxovid) COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 12 years and over who wants a different COVID-19 vaccine option. It is a protein-based vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks. Novavax is available as a booster at least 6 months after completing the primary course of any COVID-19 vaccine used in New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines: Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend approving a medicine for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. How COVID-19 vaccines are assessed | Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects when you get a COVID-19 vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines NZ Vaccine Facts COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials and testing | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks or more. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more. For children aged 6 months to 4 years, the vaccine is a 3-dose course. It is recommended the second dose is given 3 weeks after the first. Followed by a third dose given at least 8 weeks after the second dose. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients. How the Pfizer vaccine works | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The AstraZeneca vaccine is no longer available in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Novavax (Nuvaxovid) COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 12 years and over who wants a different COVID-19 vaccine option. It is a protein-based vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks. Novavax is available as a booster at least 6 months after completing the primary course of any COVID-19 vaccine used in New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines: Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend approving a medicine for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. How COVID-19 vaccines are assessed | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects when you get a COVID-19 vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials and testing | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Unite against COVID-19 Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Information for Māori communities — Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination information — Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] --- Section Separator --- It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Unite against COVID-19 Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Information for Māori communities — Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination information — Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. --- Section Separator --- Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice If you are pregnant or breastfeeding --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. It is recommended that pregnant people receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get your booster at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster at least 6 months after completing your primary course. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) Covid 19 vaccines, pregnancy and breastfeeding [PDF, 362 KB] Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. It is recommended that pregnant people receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get your booster at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster at least 6 months after completing your primary course. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Covid 19 vaccines, pregnancy and breastfeeding [PDF, 362 KB] Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years --- Section Separator --- Tamariki aged 6 months to 4 years can get the paediatric Pfizer vaccine if they are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. It is a 3-dose course. The second dose should be 3 weeks after the first dose, followed by a third dose given at least 8 weeks after the second dose. Eligible children include those who are severely immunocompromised, or who have complex or multiple health conditions. Health conditions include: chronic lung disease serious heart conditions such as congestive heart failure or congenital heart disease diabetes chronic kidney disease chronic neurological or neuromuscular disease such as cerebral palsy Down syndrome a weakened immune system or are on an immunosuppressive treatment such as chemotherapy severe haematological disorders a transplant in the last 24 months. You can find more detailed information on the eligibility criteria on the Starship website: Risk factors for COVID-19 in children | Starship (external link) Children aged 6 months to 4 years who do not have these health conditions have a very low likelihood of severe illness from COVID-19. They are not eligible for the vaccine. If you are unsure if your child is eligible, contact your healthcare provider. Before your child's vaccination appointment: provide encouragement and keep them relaxed consider scheduling the vaccine appointment for the start of the day to avoid anxiety building up make sure they have had something to eat and drink check they are wearing clothes that make it easy to see and access their upper arm or thigh. If they are a little nervous, they are welcome to take something to the appointment that will distract them, like a soft toy, phone or some music. Not every vaccination site stocks the vaccines for the 6-month to 4-year age group, but there are lots of ways to find a site convenient for you. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Check the appointment availability map first — it shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. Choose the 6 months to 4 years age band from the dropdown menu. Appointment availability map | Book My Vaccine (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz Call: 0800 28 29 26 It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. It is a good idea to have your child's NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. You can also make whānau group bookings when you call. Not all COVID-19 vaccination sites offer vaccinations to young children. Your local doctor or pharmacy may be able to vaccinate your child. There may also be walk-in or drive-through centres. Find a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre near you | Healthpoint (external link) If you would like to talk through any questions or worries, you can call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team can chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. --- Section Separator --- Tamariki aged 6 months to 4 years can get the paediatric Pfizer vaccine if they are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. It is a 3-dose course. The second dose should be 3 weeks after the first dose, followed by a third dose given at least 8 weeks after the second dose. Eligible children include those who are severely immunocompromised, or who have complex or multiple health conditions. Health conditions include: chronic lung disease serious heart conditions such as congestive heart failure or congenital heart disease diabetes chronic kidney disease chronic neurological or neuromuscular disease such as cerebral palsy Down syndrome a weakened immune system or are on an immunosuppressive treatment such as chemotherapy severe haematological disorders a transplant in the last 24 months. You can find more detailed information on the eligibility criteria on the Starship website: Risk factors for COVID-19 in children | Starship (external link) Children aged 6 months to 4 years who do not have these health conditions have a very low likelihood of severe illness from COVID-19. They are not eligible for the vaccine. If you are unsure if your child is eligible, contact your healthcare provider. --- Section Separator --- Before your child's vaccination appointment: provide encouragement and keep them relaxed consider scheduling the vaccine appointment for the start of the day to avoid anxiety building up make sure they have had something to eat and drink check they are wearing clothes that make it easy to see and access their upper arm or thigh. If they are a little nervous, they are welcome to take something to the appointment that will distract them, like a soft toy, phone or some music. --- Section Separator --- Not every vaccination site stocks the vaccines for the 6-month to 4-year age group, but there are lots of ways to find a site convenient for you. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Check the appointment availability map first — it shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. Choose the 6 months to 4 years age band from the dropdown menu. Appointment availability map | Book My Vaccine (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz Call: 0800 28 29 26 It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. It is a good idea to have your child's NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. You can also make whānau group bookings when you call. Not all COVID-19 vaccination sites offer vaccinations to young children. Your local doctor or pharmacy may be able to vaccinate your child. There may also be walk-in or drive-through centres. Find a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre near you | Healthpoint (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you would like to talk through any questions or worries, you can call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team can chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice If you have a health condition --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people | Ministry of Health (external link) If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). You can get a free Pfizer booster if: you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 6 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Get your vaccine booster If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or Novavax vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or Novavax vaccine. Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. --- Section Separator --- If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). You can get a free Pfizer booster if: you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 6 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or Novavax vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or Novavax vaccine. --- Section Separator --- Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home Current phase of our COVID-19 response New Zealand’s COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) has ended. With case numbers low, most COVID-19 rules were removed on 13 September 2022. What you need to know If you have COVID-19 How to self-isolate Household Contacts Get free RATs Face masks International travel Close Contacts Antivirals --- Section Separator --- Protecting lives and livelihoods remains the goal of the Government’s COVID-19 response. It is now possible to do this with fewer requirements, giving greater certainty to people, businesses and communities. With case numbers falling, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines to treat COVID-19, public health experts say it is safe to remove most COVID-19 rules and end border restrictions. Thanks to the efforts of New Zealanders throughout the pandemic, we have saved thousands of lives. As well as each person and family who has followed the rules, we thank iwi and Māori health providers, Pacific organisations, aged care providers, businesses, schools and other education providers who have made extraordinary efforts to protect people and communities. Isolation is our main tool to manage the spread of the virus. It is the most effective way to keep case numbers low. Isolating for 7 days remains a requirement for everyone who tests positive. To monitor for new variants arriving from overseas, the Government will continue to use: follow-up PCR (polymerase chain reaction) tests and genome sequencing of positive cases in travellers targeted surveillance at the border. COVID-19 has taken a toll on everyone’s mental health. Effective mental health tools are available to help people recover from the impact of the pandemic. Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- From 13 September 2022 you must still: isolate for 7 days if you have COVID-19 wear a face mask in certain healthcare facilities, such as hospitals. Some places may continue to ask people to wear a face mask. How to self-isolate Wearing a face mask Household Contacts no longer need to isolate for 7 days. If you live with someone who tests positive for COVID-19, we recommend you: take a rapid antigen test (RAT) each day for 5 days avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. Household Contacts Antiviral medicines are available for people at risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19, including: any New Zealander aged 65 or older Māori and Pacific peoples aged 50 or older anyone with 3 high-risk conditions. This will help protect our vulnerable communities. Medicines to treat COVID-19 All government vaccine mandates have ended. Some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated due to health and safety. Travellers and crew do not need proof of COVID-19 vaccination to enter New Zealand. Please check with your travel provider, for example, your airline, as they may still require proof of vaccination. If you have COVID-19 symptoms when you arrive in New Zealand by air, we encourage you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT). You can get free RATs at the airport. Information for international travellers --- Section Separator --- If you live with someone who has COVID-19, we recommend you do a rapid antigen test (RAT) each day for 5 days. Where to find help, plus mental wellbeing tools to help people recover from the impact of the pandemic. The COVID-19 Protection Framework set out rules for Red, Orange and Green traffic light settings. --- Section Separator --- If you live with someone who has COVID-19, we recommend you do a rapid antigen test (RAT) each day for 5 days. Where to find help, plus mental wellbeing tools to help people recover from the impact of the pandemic. The COVID-19 Protection Framework set out rules for Red, Orange and Green traffic light settings. --- Section Separator --- Information for places of worship on how to operate safely: COVID-19 guidance for places of worship [PDF, 60 KB] For information and advice for whānau and marae, see this Karawhiua factsheet: Staying safe with COVID-19 changes [PDF, 776 KB] --- Section Separator --- Staff, students and whānau can find information on Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Clubs, event organisers and others can find information on the Sport NZ website. Owners, employers and staff can find information on business.govt.nz. Employers and workers can find advice on the Ministry of Primary Industries website. Information for court participants and staff from the Ministry of Justice. --- Section Separator --- Staff, students and whānau can find information on Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Clubs, event organisers and others can find information on the Sport NZ website. Owners, employers and staff can find information on business.govt.nz. Employers and workers can find advice on the Ministry of Primary Industries website. Information for court participants and staff from the Ministry of Justice.
Home International travel Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. What you need to know Recommended testing when you arrive in NZ If you get COVID-19 while visiting NZ When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 symptoms when you arrive in New Zealand by air, we encourage you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT). You can get free RATs at the airport, please take some. Please report a positive test result by calling: 0800 432 010 — if you are calling from a New Zealand phone number +64 9 954 6118 — if you are using an international SIM card. Check with your phone provider as there may be charges. COVID-19 and travelling in New Zealand (external link) If your RAT is positive, we encourage you to also get a PCR test. These tests help us monitor new COVID-19 variants. PCR tests are free if you arrived in New Zealand by air, so make sure to tell them you are a recent international arrival. Getting a PCR test (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get ready for a safe-as summer in New Zealand. Enjoy our summer by being prepared and knowing how to stay safe. Have a safe-as summer (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's maritime border is open to foreign commercial vessels, including trade and cargo vessels. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. New Zealand's maritime border is open to foreign registered recreational vessels — including superyachts. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. What you need to know about the current COVID-19 measures in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's maritime border is open to foreign commercial vessels, including trade and cargo vessels. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. New Zealand's maritime border is open to foreign registered recreational vessels — including superyachts. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. What you need to know about the current COVID-19 measures in New Zealand.
Home News and data Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. What you need to know Vaccination rates around NZ Media conferences Latest case numbers --- Section Separator --- Tamariki aged 6 months to 4 years who are immunocompromised or have multiple or complex health conditions are eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine. From 13 February, you may need to pay for COVID-19-related visits to your healthcare provider. The Government is reiterating advice to international travellers to test if they have COVID-19 symptoms when they arrive and to take free RATs at the airport. --- Section Separator --- The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow Unite against COVID-19 and Te Whatu Ora – Health New Zealand on social media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow Unite against COVID-19 and Te Whatu Ora – Health New Zealand on social media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Report a breach online
Home News and data Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Data and statistics available: COVID-19 cases Vaccine data COVID-19 data portal Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 February 2023 The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. This includes: current COVID-19 cases case demographics source of COVID-19 cases. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more case data. COVID-19 current cases | Ministry of Health (external link) 171 Cases in hospital as at midnight Sunday 171 Cases in hospital as at midnight Sunday 1,148 New case 7-day rolling average 1,148 New case 7-day rolling average 8,396 New cases reported in the last week 8,396 New cases reported in the last week 244 People reinfected within 90 days (in the last week) 244 People reinfected within 90 days (in the last week) --- Section Separator --- You can filter case numbers by health districts, age groups, and first infections and reinfections. COVID-19 data charts | Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 February 2023 The Ministry of Health reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and deaths related to COVID-19. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more data. COVID-19 current cases data | Ministry of Health (external link) 2 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 2 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 2,513 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) 2,513 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 February 2023 The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more testing data. Testing for COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) 2,401 7-day rolling average of RATs each day 2,401 7-day rolling average of RATs each day 9,009 PCR tests in the past week 9,009 PCR tests in the past week --- Section Separator --- Last updated 8 February 2023 The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Data is updated weekly on a Wednesday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more vaccine data. COVID-19 vaccine data | Ministry of Health (external link) The dataset used to calculate the percentage of people vaccinated changed in August 2022. Find out more on the Te Whatu Ora website: Updated health user information informs COVID-19 vaccination programme | Te Whatu Ora (external link) 73.2% Percentage of eligible 18+ who have received first booster 73.2% Percentage of eligible 18+ who have received first booster 89.3% Percentage of 12+ who have completed primary course 89.3% Percentage of 12+ who have completed primary course 269,882 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 269,882 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 155,652 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 155,652 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 2,751,966 Booster first doses 2,751,966 Booster first doses 752,730 Booster second doses 752,730 Booster second doses --- Section Separator --- Check our map to find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | Stats NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- If data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and, for researchers, the ability to request detailed COVID-19 data. COVID-19 data resources | Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 1-10 of 1081 updates 08 Feb 2023 Tamariki aged 6 months to 4 years who are immunocompromised or have multiple or complex health conditions are eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine. 08 Feb 2023 From 13 February, you may need to pay for COVID-19-related visits to your healthcare provider. 04 Jan 2023 The Government is reiterating advice to international travellers to test if they have COVID-19 symptoms when they arrive and to take free RATs at the airport. 19 Dec 2022 Make sure you’re prepared if you get COVID-19 while on holiday so we can all enjoy a safe-as summer. 16 Dec 2022 Medsafe has given provisional approval. The vaccine for immunocompromised children under 5 years old will be available in February. 14 Dec 2022 The development of myocarditis in this individual was possibly due to vaccination with the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. 05 Dec 2022 A Royal Commission will prepare New Zealand for future pandemics through lessons learned from COVID-19. 16 Nov 2022 Broader second booster access will support higher vaccination rates among Māori and Pacific peoples and provide them with additional protection. 16 Nov 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 18 Oct 2022 The Government is narrowing the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act and removing the New Zealand Traveller Declaration.
If you are at risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19 you will still get free healthcare. With the Omicron variant circulating, most people can recover at home. This is due to very high vaccination levels and widespread natural immunity. Additionally, with easy access to testing and self-isolation, we can focus on those who are more vulnerable. If you are at higher risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19, you are still eligible for free healthcare from your doctor. This protects those who are most at risk of getting very ill from COVID-19, including: people with certain high-risk medical conditions Māori Pacific peoples some disabled people those over the age of 65 anyone else that meets the criteria for access to antiviral medicines. High-risk medical conditions Who can get antivirals If you are isolating at home, you should call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 if you need advice or guidance on managing your symptoms. You can also contact your local pharmacist or your healthcare provider if you need to see someone. If you require hospital-level care, it remains free. If you have COVID-19 Free rapid antigen tests (RATs) are available for everyone from participating collection centres. How to get a RAT Vaccinations are free and available at health providers and pharmacies. COVID-19 vaccines The best ways to continue to protect yourself and others are: test when you are feeling unwell being up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccinations wearing a face mask.
From 9 February a version of the paediatric Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine will be available for children aged 6 months to 4 years who are at higher risk of severe disease if they were to get COVID-19. The vaccine is an important addition to the suite of immunisations available to help protect children in Aotearoa. Immunisations are critically important to the health of our tamariki. Having access to a COVID-19 vaccine will provide protection to younger children who would otherwise be at risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. The vaccine contains a lower dose of mRNA that has been specially formulated for this age group and has been approved by Medsafe. It is also a 3-dose course, with the second dose given 3 weeks after the first, followed by a third dose at least 8 weeks after the second. Following Medsafe approval, the COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group (CV-TAG) recommended the vaccine be approved for use in children who are severely immunocompromised or who have complex or multiple health conditions which increase the risk of severe disease from COVID-19. From tomorrow parents and guardians of eligible children will be able to book a vaccine by: calling Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 visiting BookMyVaccine.nz (external link) . Vaccines will be available in selected locations across the country. The vaccine is available for children aged from 6 months to 4 years who have the following health conditions: Health conditions include: chronic lung disease serious heart conditions such as congestive heart failure or congenital heart disease diabetes chronic kidney disease chronic neurological or neuromuscular disease such as cerebral palsy Down syndrome a weakened immune system or are on an immunosuppressive treatment such as chemotherapy severe haematological disorders a transplant in the last 24 months. Children who are not in any of the high-risk categories have a low likelihood of severe illness from COVID-19 meaning they will not need, or be eligible for, the vaccine. CV-TAG will continue to review new information on COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccines and will make further recommendations if necessary. You can find more detailed information on the eligibility criteria on the Starship website: Risk factors for COVID-19 in children | Starship (external link)
New Zealand’s settings will remain unchanged following a final review for the year. That includes the retention of 7-day mandatory isolation for positive cases, in order to break the chain of transmission and keep cases and hospitalisations at a manageable level. The Government continues to provide masks, rapid antigen tests (RATs) and vaccines free from thousands of locations around the country. RATs can be ordered from the online requestor site or over the phone, and masks and vaccines from your local pharmacy or through your GP. Request free RATs | Health Hub (external link) Ahead of summer, we are encouraging New Zealanders to take simple precautions to keep a lid on COVID-19 and ensure our hard-working health workers get the break they deserve. If you are eligible for a booster, get one now. If you haven’t had your first or second dose, it’s not too late. Getting boosted significantly reduces your chances of ending up in hospital needing care. Making sure you’re up to date with your vaccines should be the first thing on your to-do list before Christmas. We recently extended second booster eligibility to Māori and Pacific peoples aged 40 and over, if you’re now eligible then book in and get boosted before going to see whānau or heading away for the holidays. COVID-19 vaccine boosters Many people have been taking advantage of available antiviral medications, with 4000 doses being administered each week currently. We know this has been keeping people out of hospital and reduced the impact of COVID-19 on the health system. You can get antiviral medication if you’re eligible and test positive for COVID-19. For information and eligibility criteria speak to your GP or pharmacist. Free antiviral medicines to treat COVID-19 | Health Hub (external link) With many people travelling around the country over the coming weeks, it’s important that everyone plays their part. Get prepared now so we can all have safe-as summer. Have a safe-as summer Call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for free COVID health advice anytime, even on public holidays. For any other non-urgent health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 for free. 0800 11 12 13 or text 8988 . It can help with vaccines, testing, face mask exemptions, managing COVID-19, and any other health concerns you may have. It is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Displaying 11-20 of 1081 updates 13 Oct 2022 The Omicron subvariant BQ1.1 has been circulating in the Northern Hemisphere and has now been found in New Zealand. 30 Sep 2022 An analysis of deaths from COVID-19 in New Zealand shows being up to date with your vaccines is the single best way to reduce the risk of dying from COVID-19. 21 Sep 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 15 Sep 2022 The Ministry of Health has released long COVID guidelines for health professionals, individuals and those caring for people with long COVID. 13 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 Sep 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 12 Sep 2022 The most recent health advice now tells us that with the lowest cases and hospitalisations since February, we are in a good position to move forward. 09 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 1041-1050 of 1081 updates 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 1051-1060 of 1081 updates 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility.
Displaying 1061-1070 of 1081 updates 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm.
Displaying 1071-1080 of 1081 updates 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1.
Displaying 1081-1081 of 1081 updates 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 21-30 of 1081 updates 07 Sep 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 06 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 29 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Aug 2022 New appointments have been made to the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group as well as extending the term of the group until December. 26 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 31-40 of 1081 updates 25 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 18 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Aug 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 16 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 41-50 of 1081 updates 11 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2022 New Zealand will remain at the Orange traffic light setting, while hospitalisations remain elevated and pressure on the health system continues through winter. 08 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Aug 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 03 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 51-60 of 1081 updates 31 Jul 2022 New Zealand’s international border opens to all visitors, including from non-visa waiver countries, and international students from 11:59pm, 31 July 2022. 31 Jul 2022 The same vaccination rules for passengers arriving by air will apply to arrivals on cruise ships and recreational vessels such as ocean-going yachts. 29 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 21 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Home News and data Media conferences Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. --- Section Separator --- There is no media conference this week. --- Section Separator --- Tamariki aged 6 months to 4 years who are immunocompromised or have multiple or complex health conditions are eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine. From 13 February, you may need to pay for COVID-19-related visits to your healthcare provider. The Government is reiterating advice to international travellers to test if they have COVID-19 symptoms when they arrive and to take free RATs at the airport.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. If you get symptoms with Omicron, you are likely to get them within 3 days of infection. But it could take up to 8 days after infection. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. Some people with COVID-19 can pass it on to others 1 or 2 days before showing symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. If you have COVID-19 Some people who have tested positive for COVID-19 can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you are eligible you will not have to pay for COVID-19-related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for eligible people who need care up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. If you need further appointments, and you no longer have acute COVID-19, you will need to pay for your visits to your doctor, as you normally would. This includes prescription dispensing fees. Eligible people include: people with certain high-risk medical conditions Māori Pacific peoples some disabled people those over the age of 65 anyone else that meets the criteria for access to antiviral medicines. High-risk medical conditions Who can get antivirals For most people reinfection with COVID-19 is not likely to be more severe than previous infections. But you can experience different symptoms. Every time you get COVID-19, it increases your risk of getting long COVID and other medical issues. If you do get COVID-19 again you will have access to the same advice, help and support you would receive for a new COVID-19 infection. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection: there is no need to take a RAT you should stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you have an underlying health condition or your symptoms are getting worse, you should get advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. Get a COVID-19 test If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. If you have COVID-19 If your test is negative: your symptoms could be another illness, such as a cold or flu and your symptoms continue, you should repeat a RAT 48 hours later if your result is still negative, stay home until at least 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why air ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off a surface is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. Long COVID Healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Healthy habits include handwashing and wearing a face mask in crowded indoor places. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means if you have COVID-19, you are far less likely to: get very sick need to go to hospital infect other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, this protection can decrease over time. Booster doses reduce the chance of serious illness and lower the risk of spreading COVID-19 to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. If you get symptoms with Omicron, you are likely to get them within 3 days of infection. But it could take up to 8 days after infection. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. Some people with COVID-19 can pass it on to others 1 or 2 days before showing symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. If you have COVID-19 Some people who have tested positive for COVID-19 can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you are eligible you will not have to pay for COVID-19-related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for eligible people who need care up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. If you need further appointments, and you no longer have acute COVID-19, you will need to pay for your visits to your doctor, as you normally would. This includes prescription dispensing fees. Eligible people include: people with certain high-risk medical conditions Māori Pacific peoples some disabled people those over the age of 65 anyone else that meets the criteria for access to antiviral medicines. High-risk medical conditions Who can get antivirals --- Section Separator --- For most people reinfection with COVID-19 is not likely to be more severe than previous infections. But you can experience different symptoms. Every time you get COVID-19, it increases your risk of getting long COVID and other medical issues. If you do get COVID-19 again you will have access to the same advice, help and support you would receive for a new COVID-19 infection. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection: there is no need to take a RAT you should stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you have an underlying health condition or your symptoms are getting worse, you should get advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. Get a COVID-19 test If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. If you have COVID-19 If your test is negative: your symptoms could be another illness, such as a cold or flu and your symptoms continue, you should repeat a RAT 48 hours later if your result is still negative, stay home until at least 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why air ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off a surface is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. Long COVID --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Healthy habits include handwashing and wearing a face mask in crowded indoor places. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means if you have COVID-19, you are far less likely to: get very sick need to go to hospital infect other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, this protection can decrease over time. Booster doses reduce the chance of serious illness and lower the risk of spreading COVID-19 to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Infection and immunity Wastewater testing
This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. Popular topics What happens if you get COVID-19 Get a COVID-19 test Get RATs delivered If you cannot wear a face mask If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 Get a booster Translations --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 disability helpline can provide help or information about vaccines, face mask exemptions, testing, managing COVID-19, and any other health concerns you may have. This includes if your support worker or carer is unavailable. Call 0800 11 12 13 for free. If you are unable to call, you can text 8988 . The COVID-19 welfare phone line can help if you are self-isolating and need food or other essential items. Call 0800 512 337 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- We aim to produce information in alternate formats as fast as possible. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille --- Section Separator --- You may need a test if: you have symptoms of COVID-19 you live with someone who has COVID-19 you are travelling your job needs you to take tests. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 312 KB] You can order RATs online or over the phone to use at home. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. You will need access to a mobile phone to order online. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. Order RATs online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Order over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. Find your nearest testing centre: COVID-19 testing sites | Healthpoint (external link) Talk to your doctor or residential care provider. You can also get free advice from the Disability Healthline. Call 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 . If you have mobility or other accessibility challenges and are unable to leave your home to get to a collection site, you can arrange to have a RAT kit delivered to you. Free call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Report your positive or negative RAT result by phone or online. Reporting a result means you can get extra support if you need it while self-isolating. Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Online: My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. You can order RATs for yourself or on behalf of someone else. You will need access to a mobile phone to confirm your order. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. You can order RATs for yourself or on behalf of someone else. You will need access to a mobile phone to confirm your order. --- Section Separator --- Report your positive RAT result online or over the phone. Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Online: My Covid Record (external link) If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with trusted, up-to-date information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so that you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . You need to self-isolate for 7 days. This means you must stay at home and try to avoid contact with people you live with. Start counting from Day 0. This is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive (whichever came first). Create your household isolation and testing timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 7 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. Advice for carers on supporting someone who has COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. --- Section Separator --- A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19. You can get a booster now if: you are aged 18 or over and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course you are aged 16 or 17 and it has been 6 months since you completed your primary course. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition Some people who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you the best possible protection. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. Vaccination for people who are severely immunocompromised | health.govt.nz (external link) A second booster is recommended for those at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a minimum of 6 months after a first booster. Find out if you are eligible for a second booster To book your vaccination or get advice: call the Disability Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 text free to 8988 email accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz --- Section Separator --- Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Information about the COVID-19 vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Information about the COVID-19 vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Call the COVID-19 disability helpline for free on 0800 11 12 13 or text 8988 . It is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. It can help with: information about vaccines, testing, face mask exemptions, and managing COVID-19 support and advice for any general health concerns you may have assistance if your support worker or carer is unavailable. You can use the New Zealand Relay Service to make a call: New Zealand Relay Services (external link) Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Financial support Support is available if you need it when self-isolating because of COVID-19. Help when you are self-isolating If you test positive, let your support provider know that you have COVID-19 so they can put protective measures in place. Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow appropriate infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | Ministry of Health (external link) If you need urgent support and your support worker or carer is unavailable, you can call the dedicated disability helpline on 0800 11 12 13 . Or you can text them on 8988 . This could be if: your support worker is unavailable and cannot provide the essential support you need you are unable to reach the organisation that normally provides your care there is no one available to provide the support you need. The 0800 11 12 13 service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, from 8am to 8pm. A person with experience or knowledge of disability will answer the call and assess the urgency of your situation and provide advice or assistance. After 8pm, calls will be answered by a trained member of the Healthline team. The call centre will work with you to determine what needs to happen, how urgent your situation is and if medical or other emergency services are needed. As always, if there is an emergency, or there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. Call the Ministry of Social Development's free COVID-19 Welfare line on 0800 512 337 . They can help you with: food and essential items mobile data so you can keep in contact with friends and whānau support for personal care or daily tasks talking to your employer if you are worried about your leave or pay mental health support support with family or sexual violence. Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others from COVID-19. We encourage you to wear one whenever you can. If you are taking a taxi or ride-share, you can ask the driver to wear a face mask. You can also put the windows down for ventilation. For some people, an impairment, disability, or physical or mental health condition can mean wearing a mask is not possible. If you have a legitimate reason that means wearing a face mask is not suitable, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can also request a card by calling 0800 11 12 13 or by texting 8988. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. We encourage you to wear one whenever you can. Different types of face masks offer different protection. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting with no gaps and used correctly and consistently. This will help to protect you and others from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. We encourage you to wear one whenever you can. Different types of face masks offer different protection. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting with no gaps and used correctly and consistently. This will help to protect you and others from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) ended on 12 September. With case numbers low, it is safe to remove most COVID-19 rules. The information on this page has been updated. About the changes
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 If you have COVID-19 you need to self-isolate for 7 days. Find out what else you need to do. --- Section Separator --- Find detailed advice about managing your symptoms and what to do while you are self-isolating on the Ministry of Health's COVID-19 Health Hub. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have taken a rapid antigen test (RAT), report your positive result online or by calling the helpline. Online: My Covid Record (external link) Call: 0800 222 478 (choose option 3) How to report your RAT result The Ministry of Health will then send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers to confirm your positive result. This has information about self-isolation, support options, and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you had a PCR test, you will get a text message with your result. If your employer asks to see proof that you must isolate, you can use this text message. You do not need a medical certificate from a doctor. --- Section Separator --- You must self-isolate for 7 days while you recover. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Create your household isolation and testing timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Your Household Contacts do not need to isolate. They should test daily for 5 days. If they test positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. Advice for your Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- You must stay at home and avoid contact with other people in your household. Find out what to do when self-isolating, including permitted reasons to leave self-isolation, and how to ventilate your home. How to self-isolate Ventilation and COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Complete the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing form using your 6-digit access code. (You can find this code in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers .) For most people, the form will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and do not complete the form within 12 hours, you will get a phone call. How to use the contact tracing form You also need to tell your close contacts you have COVID-19. This includes the people you live with, and your workplace or school. Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19 — especially if they are fully vaccinated and boosted — are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to recover at home. Symptoms for COVID-19 tend to show 2 to 5 days after a person has been infected but can take up to 14 days. Omicron causes similar symptoms to other variants. Advice on managing your COVID-19 symptoms | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) If you need advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If your symptoms get worse or you need urgent medical care, call your local healthcare provider or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 If you or the person you are caring for develops difficulty breathing, severe chest pain, fainting or becomes unconscious, call 111 immediately. If you require hospital-level care, it is free. Free antivirals to treat COVID-19 are available for people who are at risk of developing serious illness and for some people who have tested positive for COVID-19. Medicines to treat COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You can end your self-isolation 7 days after your symptoms started or you tested positive, whichever came first. You cannot end your self-isolation early, even if a later test is negative during the 7 days. You do not need to wait for an official message to leave self-isolation. You may receive a text message confirming your self-isolation period has ended. You do not need a negative RAT result to return to work or school. Some people can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can coordinate extra support for you if you need it. You may get COVID-19 while you are away from home. If you test positive while travelling, here is what you need to know. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. It can be hard supporting your tamariki (children) when they need to isolate with COVID-19. The COVID-19 Health Hub has advice on how to make things easier for children and parents. If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand, you will need to isolate for 7 days. Follow the isolation advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can coordinate extra support for you if you need it. You may get COVID-19 while you are away from home. If you test positive while travelling, here is what you need to know. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. It can be hard supporting your tamariki (children) when they need to isolate with COVID-19. The COVID-19 Health Hub has advice on how to make things easier for children and parents. If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand, you will need to isolate for 7 days. Follow the isolation advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub.
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Use the COVID-19 Health Hub to work out your isolation timeline: Create your isolation timeline (external link) Stay at home — do not go to work, school or any public places. Avoid contact with people in your household. For example, sleep by yourself if you can, and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face mask that covers your nose and mouth when near others. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood. Do not visit any shared exercise facility, such as a swimming pool. You can get deliveries, such as food and medicine from whānau and friends or by ordering supplies online. Identify a safe drop-off point outside the house to leave supplies. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes things you touch often, like door handles, light switches and phones. Do your own laundry. You cannot end your self-isolation early, even if a later test is negative during the 7 days. Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. Ventilation and COVID-19 You can download and print posters for your home to tell people you are self-isolating: We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 88 KB] Do not leave the house for any reason, unless it is a permitted reason — such as urgent medical care or exercising. If you cannot work from home during this time, your employer (or you, if you are self-employed) may be able to apply for leave support. Do not prepare food for others. Do not share items with people in your household. For example, dishes, toothbrushes and towels. Do not have visitors. This includes tradespeople, unless it is an emergency. If you have a support carer, they can continue to provide essential care. If you are unwell and have symptoms, do not do strenuous, high-impact exercise. Stick to gentle, familiar exercise. Do not get a COVID-19 vaccination until you have recovered. You are allowed to leave the place you are self-isolating for the following reasons. You must always wear a mask. Do not use public transport, taxis or rideshare vehicles. You can: have any medical examination and testing required access essential health services for treatment that cannot wait until you finish self-isolation attend any court, tribunal, New Zealand Parole Board hearing or other judicial institution you are required to attend move to another place of self-isolation to protect your own or another person’s life, health, or safety visit a dying relative who is not expected to live beyond your self-isolation visit the body of a relative before a funeral or tangihanga , if you will not be able to visit the body after your self-isolation. You are allowed to exercise outside your home while self-isolating. You can exercise in your neighbourhood, but not using any shared facility, such as a swimming pool or gym. You cannot exercise with other people, unless they are part of your household. Be mindful to: keep your distance from others stick to gentle, familiar exercise — do not do anything risky where you may need rescuing carry a face mask — you do not need to wear a face mask, but you may feel more comfortable doing so. --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Use the COVID-19 Health Hub to work out your isolation timeline: Create your isolation timeline (external link) Stay at home — do not go to work, school or any public places. Avoid contact with people in your household. For example, sleep by yourself if you can, and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face mask that covers your nose and mouth when near others. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood. Do not visit any shared exercise facility, such as a swimming pool. You can get deliveries, such as food and medicine from whānau and friends or by ordering supplies online. Identify a safe drop-off point outside the house to leave supplies. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes things you touch often, like door handles, light switches and phones. Do your own laundry. You cannot end your self-isolation early, even if a later test is negative during the 7 days. Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. Ventilation and COVID-19 You can download and print posters for your home to tell people you are self-isolating: We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 88 KB] --- Section Separator --- Do not leave the house for any reason, unless it is a permitted reason — such as urgent medical care or exercising. If you cannot work from home during this time, your employer (or you, if you are self-employed) may be able to apply for leave support. Do not prepare food for others. Do not share items with people in your household. For example, dishes, toothbrushes and towels. Do not have visitors. This includes tradespeople, unless it is an emergency. If you have a support carer, they can continue to provide essential care. If you are unwell and have symptoms, do not do strenuous, high-impact exercise. Stick to gentle, familiar exercise. Do not get a COVID-19 vaccination until you have recovered. --- Section Separator --- You are allowed to leave the place you are self-isolating for the following reasons. You must always wear a mask. Do not use public transport, taxis or rideshare vehicles. You can: have any medical examination and testing required access essential health services for treatment that cannot wait until you finish self-isolation attend any court, tribunal, New Zealand Parole Board hearing or other judicial institution you are required to attend move to another place of self-isolation to protect your own or another person’s life, health, or safety visit a dying relative who is not expected to live beyond your self-isolation visit the body of a relative before a funeral or tangihanga , if you will not be able to visit the body after your self-isolation. You are allowed to exercise outside your home while self-isolating. You can exercise in your neighbourhood, but not using any shared facility, such as a swimming pool or gym. You cannot exercise with other people, unless they are part of your household. Be mindful to: keep your distance from others stick to gentle, familiar exercise — do not do anything risky where you may need rescuing carry a face mask — you do not need to wear a face mask, but you may feel more comfortable doing so. --- Section Separator --- Medicines to treat COVID-19 How to self-isolate Help when you are self-isolating If you get COVID-19 while travelling After you have had COVID-19 Long COVID
