For the best protection, wear a face mask in public indoor spaces. This helps protect you, and the people who cannot wear a mask. What you need to know Travel to NZ Get your booster If you have COVID-19 Household Contacts Self-isolation rules Get free RATs COVID-19 symptoms Latest case numbers Posters Alternate formats --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- You can get a free booster if you are aged 16 or over and have completed your primary course of the vaccine. Information about what to do if you are planning to travel to New Zealand. Find out how to get an updated My Vaccine Pass, your My Vaccine Record or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. --- Section Separator --- You can get a free booster if you are aged 16 or over and have completed your primary course of the vaccine. Information about what to do if you are planning to travel to New Zealand. Find out how to get an updated My Vaccine Pass, your My Vaccine Record or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 independent advisory groups. There is also a community panel to represent diverse views. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Unite against COVID-19 helps New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 Protection Framework sets out rules for different traffic light settings. The framework aims to manage life with Omicron and reduce the impact of outbreaks. --- Section Separator --- To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 independent advisory groups. There is also a community panel to represent diverse views. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Unite against COVID-19 helps New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 Protection Framework sets out rules for different traffic light settings. The framework aims to manage life with Omicron and reduce the impact of outbreaks.
Home About our COVID-19 response History of the COVID-19 Alert System --- Section Separator --- The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of control measures in New Zealand and overseas, or the application of Alert Levels at different times, for example, the application may be different depending on if NZ is moving down or up Alert Levels). Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 102 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 210 KB] First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 move to Step 1 of Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 3. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 Step 1 move to Alert Level 3 Step 2 from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 Step 2 at 11:59pm. Upper Northland remains at Alert Level 3. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 1. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Parts of Waikato move to Alert Level 2. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All of New Zealand moved to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights, at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021. COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of control measures in New Zealand and overseas, or the application of Alert Levels at different times, for example, the application may be different depending on if NZ is moving down or up Alert Levels). Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. --- Section Separator --- Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 102 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 210 KB] --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. --- Section Separator --- The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. --- Section Separator --- The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. --- Section Separator --- At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 move to Step 1 of Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 3. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 Step 1 move to Alert Level 3 Step 2 from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 Step 2 at 11:59pm. Upper Northland remains at Alert Level 3. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 1. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Parts of Waikato move to Alert Level 2. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand moved to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights, at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021. COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) --- Section Separator --- A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases History of the COVID-19 Alert System Our brand story History of the COVID-19 Protection Framework
Home About our COVID-19 response Independent Advisory Groups Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group --- Section Separator --- The group provides independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 449 KB] Professor Nikki Turner, Chair Prof David Murdoch Dr Ella Iosua Dr Maia Brewerton Prof Patricia Priest Associate Prof Matire Harwood Documents from Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group are proactively released to the public. View proactive releases --- Section Separator --- The group provides independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 449 KB] --- Section Separator --- Professor Nikki Turner, Chair Prof David Murdoch Dr Ella Iosua Dr Maia Brewerton Prof Patricia Priest Associate Prof Matire Harwood --- Section Separator --- Documents from Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group are proactively released to the public. View proactive releases --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Community Panel
Home About our COVID-19 response Legislation and key documents --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] — updated May 2022 The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2021 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] — updated May 2022 --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2021 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases History of the COVID-19 Alert System Our brand story History of the COVID-19 Protection Framework
Home About our COVID-19 response Our brand story How Unite Against COVID-19's brand has evolved to support Aotearoa's journey and response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Unite Against COVID-19 was set up to help New Zealanders navigate their way through the pandemic. For the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights), our brand evolved to support the next stage of Aotearoa's journey based on the concept of "He waka eke noa — we are all in this together." --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 was a storm that had been raging across the world and eventually made its way to Aotearoa. This pūrorohū threatened our lifestyle, businesses and our very lives. We knew the only way we could survive was to shelter and wait for it to pass. So, we dropped anchor and took shelter, and focused on keeping people safe. Each time it threatened us we would do this and wait for it to pass. But, over time it has become apparent to us all that our weather has changed and this storm is now part of our new reality. --- Section Separator --- Our strength has always been in our sail. Our raranga is made strong by the threads working together. Throughout the pandemic we have added new threads to our raranga that have further strengthened our sail, so we can now continue our journey. We can seek out new horizons with the confidence of knowing that if we hit some bad weather again, our navigation skills and the strength of our sail will carry us through to calmer waters. Working collaboratively with Māori designers and communication experts, our sail motif reflects the journey we are on and is now woven through our designs and advertising. From this, a distinctive Aotearoa feel flows through our visual elements. --- Section Separator --- Our colour palette is influenced by the colours of the kererū . The taonga pūoro you hear woven into the sting at the start of our audio advertisements represent the contemporary sounds of Aotearoa. These are New Zealand's sounds and voices. Taonga pūoro are considered an important medicine in healing. They are used as rongoā (medicine) for both mental health and physical ailments. Our taonga pūoro is recorded by musician Reti Hedley, Ngā Puhi, Ngāti Tūwharetoa. --- Section Separator --- Through 2020 and 2021, our yellow stripes and Alert Level campaign helped Aotearoa shelter from the stormy weather, while reassuring New Zealanders we could get through together. Aotearoa is still navigating its journey with COVID-19, but together we can continue to trust in the strength of our sail.
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. Make a direct request for official information Customs New Zealand Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Ministry of Health Border Executive Board --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. This includes papers, minutes, Official Information Act requests (OIAs) and key advice. These documents are proactively released in keeping with the Official Information Act 1982. --- Section Separator --- A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Section 9(2)(f)(iv) — confidential advice Section 9(2)(ba)(ii) — information provided to the Government under an obligation of confidence Section 6(a) — international relations Section 9(2)(j) — commercial negotiations.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. You might be interested in Child vaccinations International travel vaccination certificates How to use My Covid Record About Novavax Vaccine advice for disabled people COVID-19 vaccine data --- Section Separator --- Talk to the COVID Vaccination Healthline 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. Call 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. Some workers must be vaccinated against COVID-19 to go to work. Find more information on who needs to be vaccinated. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. Some workers must be vaccinated against COVID-19 to go to work. Find more information on who needs to be vaccinated. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Your booster questions answered Nanogirl: The COVID-19 vaccine explained, for kids Dr Jin Russell — 4 reasons to get tamariki immunised against COVID-19 Dr Owen Sinclair — The risks and benefits of immunisation for children Jaki's story — Vaccinating people with needle phobias Dr Nikki Turner — Vaccines and pregnancy --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines. --- Section Separator --- Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. The Novavax COVID-19 vaccine is also available for people aged 18 and over. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. --- Section Separator --- Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. The Novavax COVID-19 vaccine is also available for people aged 18 and over. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 The COVID-19 vaccine protects your child, your whānau and your community. It is free and available now for everyone aged 5 and over. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. Like adults, if your child is infected with COVID-19 they may transmit the virus to other people. Immunising tamariki helps protect whānau members whose health makes them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Dr Jin Russell — 4 reasons to get tamariki immunised against COVID-19 Dr Owen Sinclair — The risks and benefits of immunising tamariki Dr Pete Watson — How immunising tamariki helps protect your community --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children and young people who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Tamariki aged 5 to 11 receive a children’s (paediatric) version of the Pfizer vaccine, with a lower dose and smaller volume. It is also given using a smaller needle. The lower dose was chosen based on a trial that showed the lower dose was safe and had few side effects in this age group. Children are not eligible for a booster or the AstraZeneca vaccine. To be fully protected, children need 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine. It is recommended the first and second dose are at least 8 weeks apart. The interval can be shortened to a minimum of 21 days if needed — for example, if the child is starting significant immunosuppression treatment. You will need to discuss this with the child's doctor. --- Section Separator --- If children and young people who have been vaccinated do develop COVID-19, they are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. For children aged 5 to 11, clinical trial results showed the Pfizer vaccine was 90.7% effective against getting COVID-19 symptoms, and no participants developed severe COVID-19. Dr Lily Fraser — effects of COVID-19 on tamariki Dr Jin Russell — How safe is the vaccination for tamariki? --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is responsible for approving the use of all medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. They only approve a vaccine in Aotearoa once they are satisfied it has met strict standards for safety, efficacy and quality. The trials in 5 to 11-year-olds with a child dose of the Pfizer showed the vaccine was safe, and the side effects were generally mild. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand Research and data on vaccinating children aged 5 to 11 | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Explain that it might hurt for a short time, just like their other childhood immunisations. Tell them there will be a small needle and that they will feel a sharp scratch or sting briefly but then it will be over. They may have a sore arm, fever, headache or feel tired afterwards. It is important to tell them why they are getting vaccinated. Let them know the vaccine will protect them against COVID-19, and protect their family, their grandparents, their community, and other kids at school who may be more at risk from COVID-19 if they catch it. Make sure they know they will need 2 doses. Give them time to ask the vaccinator questions if they have them. Have some games or toys ready so you can distract them during their vaccination and entertain them while you wait for 15 minutes afterwards. Arrange a fun activity or treat to look forward to after the appointment. Tell them that they might feel a bit unwell or a day or two, and arrange to spend some extra time with them if you can. What to expect after your child's vaccination [PDF, 260 KB] --- Section Separator --- Nanogirl: The COVID-19 vaccine explained, for kids Dr Lily talks with tamariki about vaccines Dr Teuila Percival — Explaining the COVID-19 vaccine to children --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand that offer vaccinations for tamariki. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Check the appointment availability map first — it shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. You can choose the child vaccine (5 to 11) or adult vaccine (12+) from the dropdown menu. Appointment availability map | Book My Vaccine (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz 0800 28 29 26 It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. It is a good idea to have your child's NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Not all COVID-19 vaccination sites will be offering vaccinations to 5 to 11-year-olds. Find a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre near you --- Section Separator --- If you would like to talk through any questions or worries, you can call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori communities | Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination | Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccines used in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks or more. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients. How the Pfizer vaccine works | Ministry of Health (external link) The AstraZeneca vaccine is no longer available in New Zealand. The Novavax (Nuvaxovid) COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and over who wants a different COVID-19 vaccine option. It is a protein-based vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks. Novavax is available as a booster at least 6 months after completing the primary course of any COVID-19 vaccine used in New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines: Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend approving a medicine for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. How COVID-19 vaccines are assessed | Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects when you get a COVID-19 vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines NZ Vaccine Facts COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials and testing | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks or more. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients. How the Pfizer vaccine works | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The AstraZeneca vaccine is no longer available in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Novavax (Nuvaxovid) COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and over who wants a different COVID-19 vaccine option. It is a protein-based vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks. Novavax is available as a booster at least 6 months after completing the primary course of any COVID-19 vaccine used in New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines: Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend approving a medicine for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. How COVID-19 vaccines are assessed | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects when you get a COVID-19 vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials and testing | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice If you are pregnant or breastfeeding --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. It is recommended that pregnant people receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get your booster at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster at least 6 months after completing your primary course. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster Sarah, 25 weeks pregnant, on vaccine hesitancy Doctor Nikki on pregnancy, COVID-19, and the vaccine If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. It is recommended that pregnant people receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get your booster at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster at least 6 months after completing your primary course. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Sarah, 25 weeks pregnant, on vaccine hesitancy Doctor Nikki on pregnancy, COVID-19, and the vaccine --- Section Separator --- If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice If you have a health condition --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people | Ministry of Health (external link) If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). You can get a free Pfizer booster if: you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 6 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Get your vaccine booster If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or Novavax vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or Novavax vaccine. Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. --- Section Separator --- If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). You can get a free Pfizer booster if: you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 6 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or Novavax vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or Novavax vaccine. --- Section Separator --- Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine resources Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan. --- Section Separator --- Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 542 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 668 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB] We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. Watch all our campaign videos (external link) COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. --- Section Separator --- Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 542 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 668 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. --- Section Separator --- Watch all our campaign videos (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get your COVID-19 vaccination Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. What you need to know Vaccine side effects Boosters If you have a health condition Child vaccinations Vaccine advice for disabled people If you are pregnant or breastfeeding --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 or over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Children under 5 cannot get vaccinated for COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The Novavax vaccine is not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to previous vaccination and help your immunity be stronger and last longer. If you have had COVID-19 and are eligible for a booster, you can get it 3 months after you tested positive. Book your booster You can get a first booster if you: are aged 16 or over have completed your primary course of the vaccine (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are aged 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster 6 months after your last dose. If you are 18 or over, you can get a Pfizer booster 3 months after your last dose, or a Novavax booster 6 months after your last dose. You can get a second booster if you are at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19. This includes: all people aged 50 and over healthcare, aged care and disability workers aged 30 and over residents of aged care and disability care facilities severely immunocompromised people who received a 3-dose primary course and a fourth dose as a first booster (this would be a fifth dose for these people) people aged 16 and over who live with disability with significant or complex health needs or multiple comorbidities people aged 16 and over with a medical condition that increases the risk of severe COVID-19 illness. If you are eligible, you can get your second booster 6 months after your first booster. Medical conditions that increase the risk of severe illness from COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) A second booster is not yet needed by younger people who are generally healthy and do not have underlying health conditions. This includes people who are currently healthy and pregnant. If you are not considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a 2-dose primary course and a booster dose provides very good protection against severe illness from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It can show you where vaccination sites are, how soon you can get an appointment, and which vaccine types are available. Appointment availability map | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz The COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Call: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- You will need your booking reference to reschedule or cancel an appointment online. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. Cancel or change your booking online | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) Call: 0800 28 29 26
Home COVID-19 vaccines Side effects --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away. There will be no charge for the consultation. These symptoms include: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is 'skipping beats'. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 at any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your health, call 111 , and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. A rare but serious side effect after having the Novavax vaccine is a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis). These reactions usually happen soon after you have had your vaccination, which is why you need to wait at least 15 minutes. If you do have a serious allergic reaction, vaccinators are trained to manage this. It is recommended that you do not have Novavax if you have had a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) to a previous dose of the vaccine or to any component of the vaccine. Another serious side effect is Pericarditis. Pericarditis is an inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Novavax vaccine. Symptoms of pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away. There will be no charge for the consultation. These symptoms include: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is 'skipping beats'. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 at any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111 , and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | Ministry of Health (external link) If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM | New Zealand Pharmacovigilance Centre (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. --- Section Separator --- There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away. There will be no charge for the consultation. These symptoms include: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is 'skipping beats'. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 at any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your health, call 111 , and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. A rare but serious side effect after having the Novavax vaccine is a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis). These reactions usually happen soon after you have had your vaccination, which is why you need to wait at least 15 minutes. If you do have a serious allergic reaction, vaccinators are trained to manage this. It is recommended that you do not have Novavax if you have had a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) to a previous dose of the vaccine or to any component of the vaccine. Another serious side effect is Pericarditis. Pericarditis is an inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Novavax vaccine. Symptoms of pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away. There will be no charge for the consultation. These symptoms include: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is 'skipping beats'. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 at any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111 , and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. --- Section Separator --- Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. --- Section Separator --- If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM | New Zealand Pharmacovigilance Centre (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine passes and certificates Vaccinations and work COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines What to expect when you get your vaccination --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. COVID Immunisation Register (CIR) privacy statement | Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The Novavax vaccine is not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. COVID Immunisation Register (CIR) privacy statement | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The Novavax vaccine is not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine passes and certificates Vaccinations and work COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand by air Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you are not a New Zealand citizen, resident or Australian citizen who lives in New Zealand, you must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand — unless you have an exemption. You do not need to be vaccinated if you are transiting through New Zealand. Unvaccinated travellers cannot enter New Zealand. There is no minimum timeframe you need to wait after completing a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine to travel to New Zealand. If you are arriving by air, upload your proof of vaccination to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) . Proof of vaccination certificates do not have an expiry date. For help uploading your proof of vaccination | New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) Most travellers must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine to enter New Zealand. Booster doses are not required. Vaccination requirements apply to: passengers arriving by air crew and passengers on super yachts or recreational boats arriving by sea crew and passengers on cruise ships. If you are unvaccinated you cannot enter New Zealand — unless you are exempt or do not need to have proof of vaccination. Who does not need proof of vaccination You need to provide proof of your vaccinations. If you arrive by air, you will need to upload proof of your vaccinations to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. If you are arriving on a cruise ship, follow the instructions of your cruise operator. New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) You must provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand if you are: not a New Zealand citizen or resident not an Australian citizen living in New Zealand foreign aircrew arriving in New Zealand foreign maritime crew and passengers arriving in New Zealand on all recreational vessels — including cruise ships, super yachts and small craft. If you are unvaccinated, you cannot enter New Zealand. You may be able to get an exemption if you travel to New Zealand from a country with no or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. Apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you have not been vaccinated. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you qualify for an exemption, and apply on the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an exemption | Ministry of Health (external link) If you have had 1 dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, but cannot have your next dose because you recently had COVID-19, you must provide proof. You need to get a letter from a health professional — for example, a doctor — confirming: you have recently recovered from COVID-19, and you must wait before receiving your next dose. Upload this letter to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration, along with proof of your first dose. You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen have a New Zealand residence class visa — either a permanent resident or resident visa are an Australian citizen living in New Zealand are a child aged 16 years and under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a health professional such as a doctor are a refugee arriving in New Zealand for the first time are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated have been granted a visa under the 2022 Special Ukraine Visa Policy; or if you are or were ordinarily resident in Ukraine at any point on or after 1 January 2022 are arriving from Antarctica are transiting through New Zealand are arriving in New Zealand on a trade, cargo or other specialist (Category 1) vessel. To be eligible to enter New Zealand, you must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You do not need a booster dose. You can have doses of different vaccines if that combination is approved in the country you were vaccinated. Each vaccine must be on the list of approved vaccines. You need a digital vaccine certificate or an electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have been vaccinated. Your evidence must confirm you have received a full primary course of COVID-19 vaccines and include: your name name of the vaccine or vaccines you received name of the agency that administered them name of the country where you were vaccinated date of each dose or date when you completed your primary vaccination course. If you are travelling to New Zealand by air, upload proof of your vaccinations to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. How to upload documents to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) If you need help completing the Traveller Declaration, you can contact them by phone, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Call: +64 4 9315799 — if you are calling from overseas 0800 359 269 — if you are calling from New Zealand 1800 359 269 — if you are calling from Australia Download your International Travel Vaccination Certificate from the My Covid Record website. My Covid Record (external link) Overseas vaccination certificates do not have to be translated into English. If you have an English version, or if you can easily get one, we encourage you to bring this with you. Examples of accepted vaccination certificates | New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are not a New Zealand citizen, resident or Australian citizen who lives in New Zealand, you must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand — unless you have an exemption. You do not need to be vaccinated if you are transiting through New Zealand. Unvaccinated travellers cannot enter New Zealand. There is no minimum timeframe you need to wait after completing a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine to travel to New Zealand. If you are arriving by air, upload your proof of vaccination to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) . Proof of vaccination certificates do not have an expiry date. For help uploading your proof of vaccination | New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine to enter New Zealand. Booster doses are not required. Vaccination requirements apply to: passengers arriving by air crew and passengers on super yachts or recreational boats arriving by sea crew and passengers on cruise ships. If you are unvaccinated you cannot enter New Zealand — unless you are exempt or do not need to have proof of vaccination. Who does not need proof of vaccination You need to provide proof of your vaccinations. If you arrive by air, you will need to upload proof of your vaccinations to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. If you are arriving on a cruise ship, follow the instructions of your cruise operator. New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- You must provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand if you are: not a New Zealand citizen or resident not an Australian citizen living in New Zealand foreign aircrew arriving in New Zealand foreign maritime crew and passengers arriving in New Zealand on all recreational vessels — including cruise ships, super yachts and small craft. If you are unvaccinated, you cannot enter New Zealand. You may be able to get an exemption if you travel to New Zealand from a country with no or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. Apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you have not been vaccinated. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you qualify for an exemption, and apply on the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an exemption | Ministry of Health (external link) If you have had 1 dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, but cannot have your next dose because you recently had COVID-19, you must provide proof. You need to get a letter from a health professional — for example, a doctor — confirming: you have recently recovered from COVID-19, and you must wait before receiving your next dose. Upload this letter to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration, along with proof of your first dose. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen have a New Zealand residence class visa — either a permanent resident or resident visa are an Australian citizen living in New Zealand are a child aged 16 years and under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a health professional such as a doctor are a refugee arriving in New Zealand for the first time are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated have been granted a visa under the 2022 Special Ukraine Visa Policy; or if you are or were ordinarily resident in Ukraine at any point on or after 1 January 2022 are arriving from Antarctica are transiting through New Zealand are arriving in New Zealand on a trade, cargo or other specialist (Category 1) vessel. --- Section Separator --- To be eligible to enter New Zealand, you must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You do not need a booster dose. You can have doses of different vaccines if that combination is approved in the country you were vaccinated. Each vaccine must be on the list of approved vaccines. --- Section Separator --- You need a digital vaccine certificate or an electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have been vaccinated. Your evidence must confirm you have received a full primary course of COVID-19 vaccines and include: your name name of the vaccine or vaccines you received name of the agency that administered them name of the country where you were vaccinated date of each dose or date when you completed your primary vaccination course. If you are travelling to New Zealand by air, upload proof of your vaccinations to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. How to upload documents to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) If you need help completing the Traveller Declaration, you can contact them by phone, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Call: +64 4 9315799 — if you are calling from overseas 0800 359 269 — if you are calling from New Zealand 1800 359 269 — if you are calling from Australia Download your International Travel Vaccination Certificate from the My Covid Record website. My Covid Record (external link) Overseas vaccination certificates do not have to be translated into English. If you have an English version, or if you can easily get one, we encourage you to bring this with you. Examples of accepted vaccination certificates | New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- Preparing to travel to New Zealand by air Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home Isolation and care After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since a previous infection (either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms) and: you are low risk, you do not need to take another test — stay home and recover, until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms you have an underlying health condition or have COVID-19-like symptoms that are getting worse, you should seek advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. Get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months if someone you live with tests positive. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. Household Contacts Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough sore throat chest tightness chest pain difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' difficulty sleeping pins and needles dizziness joint pain muscle pain. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | Ministry of Health (external link) Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. You should wait 3 months after testing positive before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. Get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since a previous infection (either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms) and: you are low risk, you do not need to take another test — stay home and recover, until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms you have an underlying health condition or have COVID-19-like symptoms that are getting worse, you should seek advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. Get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months if someone you live with tests positive. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough sore throat chest tightness chest pain difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' difficulty sleeping pins and needles dizziness joint pain muscle pain. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. You should wait 3 months after testing positive before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. Get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19 Help when you are self-isolating Financial support
Home Isolation and care Financial support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. --- Section Separator --- Answer these questions to find out what financial support you could get. There are different support options if you are an employer, are self-employed or a sole trader, or if you are an employee. --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment was available for businesses, including self-employed people, to help pay their employees who could not work from home while they waited for a COVID-19 PCR test result. Applications for the Short-Term Absence Payment are closing soon. Only PCR tests taken on or before 22 August 2022 will be accepted. Employers can apply for this payment up to 8 weeks after your PCR test. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment | Work and Income (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you cannot work from home while you are self-isolating, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer needs to apply for you. Y ou can also apply if you are self-employed. You may also be eligible for the scheme if you or someone you care for is at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Your employer can get $600 per week if you work full time, and $359 per week if you work part time to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme | Work and Income (external link) Extra help while you are self-isolating | Work and Income (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job or you cannot work at the moment, you may be able to get help from Work and Income. Use the online tool to find out what type of help you may qualify for. Support if you are not working | Work and Income (external link) If you have lost your job because you decide not to get the COVID-19 vaccination, Work and Income may be able to help. You can: apply for benefits or other financial support ask them to help you find another job. You can get financial support from Work and Income regardless of your vaccination status. Lost job because of vaccination requirement | Work and Income (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job, cannot work or are working fewer hours, you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent, board, or the cost of owning a home power, gas, heating or water bills medical and dental costs. You do not need to be on a benefit to get financial support. Help for you and your whānau during COVID-19 | Work and Income (external link) Call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 or use their online calculator to check what you might be eligible for. Check what you might get | Ministry of Social Development (MSD) (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your employment has been affected and you are experiencing financial hardship, or you need help getting home, your embassy or consulate may be able to help. People on a temporary visa are not eligible for help from Work and Income. Contact details of your country's embassy, consulate or high commission (external link) (external link) If you are an international student and are experiencing financial hardship, we recommend you speak to your education provider or student association. They may be able to offer you free budgeting advice, or tell you about funds that are available.
Home Isolation and care If you have COVID-19 If you have COVID-19 you need to self-isolate for at least 7 days. Find out what else you need to do. --- Section Separator --- Find detailed advice about managing your symptoms and what to do while you are self-isolating on the Ministry of Health's COVID-19 Health Hub. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have taken a rapid antigen test (RAT), report your positive result online or by calling the helpline. Online: My Covid Record (external link) Call: 0800 222 478 (choose option 3) How to report your RAT result The Ministry of Health will then send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers to confirm your positive result. This has information about self-isolation, support options, and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you had a PCR test, you will get a text message with your result. If your employer asks to see proof that you must to isolate, you can use this text message. You do not need a medical certificate from a doctor. Proof of isolation for employees and employers | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- You must self-isolate for at least 7 days while you recover. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Work out your household isolation timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Your Household Contacts will also need to isolate for 7 days, unless they have had COVID-19 in the last 3 months. Advice for your Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- You must stay at home and avoid contact with other people in your household. Find out what to do when self-isolating, including permitted reasons to leave self-isolation, and how to ventilate your home. How to self-isolate Ventilation and COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Complete the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing form using your 6-digit access code. (You can find this code in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers .) For most people, the form will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and do not complete the form within 12 hours, you will get a phone call. Contact tracing form user guides | Ministry of Health (external link) You also need to tell your close contacts you have COVID-19. This includes the people you live with, and your workplace or school. Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19 — especially if they are fully vaccinated and boosted — are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to recover at home. Symptoms for COVID-19 tend to show 2 to 5 days after a person has been infected but can take up to 14 days. Omicron causes similar symptoms to other variants. Advice on managing your COVID-19 symptoms | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) If you need advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If your symptoms get worse or you need urgent medical care, call your local healthcare provider or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 If you or the person you are caring for develops difficulty breathing, severe chest pain, fainting or becomes unconscious, call 111 immediately. Medicines to treat COVID-19 are available for people who are at risk of developing serious illness and for some people who have tested positive for COVID-19. Medicines to treat COVID-19 You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs for up to 6 weeks from the first day you develop symptoms or the date of your first positive test, whichever came first. This includes 1 follow-up check with your healthcare provider if required during those 6 weeks, once your acute episode of COVID-19 is over. After you have had the follow-up check, if you required one, and you no longer have acute COVID-19, you will then need to pay for your future visits to your doctor and prescription dispensing fees, just as you would for other medical conditions, even if it is within the 6-week period. If you are a visitor to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay, you may need to pay for any healthcare costs. --- Section Separator --- You can end your self-isolation 7 days after your symptoms started or you tested positive, whichever came first. You do not need to wait for an official message to leave self-isolation. You may receive a text message confirming your self-isolation period has ended. You do not need a negative RAT result to return to work or school. Some people can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. Your Household Contacts can complete their isolation at the same time as you, as long as their Day 7 test was negative and they have no new or worsening symptoms. If they test positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts You do not need to isolate as a Household Contact for 90 days from when you first tested positive if someone else in your household gets COVID-19 during this time. The chance of you being reinfected with COVID-19 in the 90 days after testing positive is low. After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can co-ordinate extra support for you if you need it. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available.
Home Isolation and care If you have COVID-19 Medicines to treat COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat eligible people with COVID-19 at home. You must start taking COVID-19 medicines within the first 5 days of getting symptoms. When taken early in your COVID-19 illness, antivirals can help you stay out of hospital. These medicines are free for eligible people within 5 days of their symptoms starting. People with a high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are eligible for treatment with COVID-19 medicines. Find out if you are eligible using the guide on the Ministry of Health website. Eligibility guide for COVID-19 antivirals (external link) Talk to your doctor or nurse by phone to see if getting a prescription is right for you. They will help you work out if you are eligible for COVID-19 medicine. It will depend on several factors, including your age, ethnicity, other health conditions and vaccination status. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, get a test. How to get a COVID-19 test If you are at risk of becoming very unwell with COVID-19 you may be able to get a prescription before you get COVID-19. This means the pharmacist will have the prescription ready to use if you become unwell. If you test positive, you can then arrange to have the medicine delivered by your friends, whānau or the pharmacy. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will confirm that it is still safe for you to take COVID-19 medicines. You will not be able to get the medicine until you are diagnosed with COVID-19. Talk to your doctor or nurse to see if getting a prescription before you get unwell is right for you. You might be eligible to get COVID-19 medicines from a pharmacist if you have tested positive, or have symptoms and are a Household Contact. You do not need a doctor’s prescription. Some pharmacists will be able to supply COVID-19 antivirals without a prescription. Talk to your pharmacist or a registered nurse either immediately after you test positive or develop symptoms to see if the medicines are right for you. To be eligible you must also either: have a severely weakened immune system have Down syndrome have sickle cell disease be aged 75 years or older, or have been previously admitted to an intensive care unit directly as a result of COVID-19 and have tested positive again. You might also be eligible if you: have high-risk medical conditions are over 50 years of age are of Māori or Pacific Island ethnicity have complex health needs or disability have not been vaccinated for COVID-19 or are not up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations. Find out about high-risk medical conditions on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Higher-risk people | Ministry of Health (external link) Three COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat early COVID-19 at home: ritonavir with nirmatrelvir (branded as Paxlovid) molnupiravir (branded as Lagevrio) remdesivir, an infusion treatment (branded as Veklury). Pharmacies supplying antivirals can be found on Healthpoint. You will need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) You will not need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you do not need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) If you have COVID-19 or are a Household Contact you must self-isolate for at least 7 days and cannot leave your home. If you are eligible for medicines, arrange to have them delivered by friends, whānau or by other means. Some pharmacies can deliver the medicine. How to self-isolate Some other medicines are available to treat COVID-19 but are only given in hospital. Pharmac, the agency which decides what medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand, has more information on its website. New Zealand’s COVID-19 treatments portfolio | Pharmac (external link) If you are severely immunocompromised you may be eligible for Evusheld. Evusheld is a preventative medicine and can help reduce severe illness and hospitalisation from COVID-19. It is currently available for severely immunocompromised people in hospitals for those 12 years old and over. You can get the 2 injections of Evusheld before you get COVID-19, or at least 2 weeks after your recovery. Evusheld will be available in the community from mid-September. Talk to your doctor or health professional about whether this medicine is right for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 Eligibility criteria for Evusheld | Pharmac (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat eligible people with COVID-19 at home. You must start taking COVID-19 medicines within the first 5 days of getting symptoms. When taken early in your COVID-19 illness, antivirals can help you stay out of hospital. These medicines are free for eligible people within 5 days of their symptoms starting. --- Section Separator --- People with a high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are eligible for treatment with COVID-19 medicines. Find out if you are eligible using the guide on the Ministry of Health website. Eligibility guide for COVID-19 antivirals (external link) Talk to your doctor or nurse by phone to see if getting a prescription is right for you. They will help you work out if you are eligible for COVID-19 medicine. It will depend on several factors, including your age, ethnicity, other health conditions and vaccination status. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, get a test. How to get a COVID-19 test If you are at risk of becoming very unwell with COVID-19 you may be able to get a prescription before you get COVID-19. This means the pharmacist will have the prescription ready to use if you become unwell. If you test positive, you can then arrange to have the medicine delivered by your friends, whānau or the pharmacy. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will confirm that it is still safe for you to take COVID-19 medicines. You will not be able to get the medicine until you are diagnosed with COVID-19. Talk to your doctor or nurse to see if getting a prescription before you get unwell is right for you. You might be eligible to get COVID-19 medicines from a pharmacist if you have tested positive, or have symptoms and are a Household Contact. You do not need a doctor’s prescription. Some pharmacists will be able to supply COVID-19 antivirals without a prescription. Talk to your pharmacist or a registered nurse either immediately after you test positive or develop symptoms to see if the medicines are right for you. To be eligible you must also either: have a severely weakened immune system have Down syndrome have sickle cell disease be aged 75 years or older, or have been previously admitted to an intensive care unit directly as a result of COVID-19 and have tested positive again. You might also be eligible if you: have high-risk medical conditions are over 50 years of age are of Māori or Pacific Island ethnicity have complex health needs or disability have not been vaccinated for COVID-19 or are not up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations. Find out about high-risk medical conditions on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Higher-risk people | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Three COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat early COVID-19 at home: ritonavir with nirmatrelvir (branded as Paxlovid) molnupiravir (branded as Lagevrio) remdesivir, an infusion treatment (branded as Veklury). --- Section Separator --- Pharmacies supplying antivirals can be found on Healthpoint. You will need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) You will not need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you do not need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 or are a Household Contact you must self-isolate for at least 7 days and cannot leave your home. If you are eligible for medicines, arrange to have them delivered by friends, whānau or by other means. Some pharmacies can deliver the medicine. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- Some other medicines are available to treat COVID-19 but are only given in hospital. Pharmac, the agency which decides what medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand, has more information on its website. New Zealand’s COVID-19 treatments portfolio | Pharmac (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are severely immunocompromised you may be eligible for Evusheld. Evusheld is a preventative medicine and can help reduce severe illness and hospitalisation from COVID-19. It is currently available for severely immunocompromised people in hospitals for those 12 years old and over. You can get the 2 injections of Evusheld before you get COVID-19, or at least 2 weeks after your recovery. Evusheld will be available in the community from mid-September. Talk to your doctor or health professional about whether this medicine is right for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 Eligibility criteria for Evusheld | Pharmac (external link) --- Section Separator --- Medicines to treat COVID-19 How to self-isolate If you get COVID-19 while travelling
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Braille --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Braille: COVID-19 Information for parents [BRF, 6 KB] Getting free face masks [BRF, 2 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. Life at Green [BRF, 3 KB] Life at Orange [BRF, 6 KB] Life at Red [BRF, 10 KB] The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [BRF, 6 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 5 KB] Getting free face masks [BRF, 2 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [BRF, 3 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [BRF, 3 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Getting your booster dose [BRF, 4 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] My Covid Record [BRF, 3 KB] My Vaccine Pass [BRF, 4 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [BRF, 1 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] About COVID-19 testing [BRF, 4 KB] When you should get a test [BRF, 3 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] How contact tracing works [BRF, 4 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 4 KB] Isolating at home [BRF, 6 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [BRF, 2 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [BRF, 8 KB] Travel within New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Braille: COVID-19 Information for parents [BRF, 6 KB] Getting free face masks [BRF, 2 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] --- Section Separator --- Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. --- Section Separator --- Life at Green [BRF, 3 KB] Life at Orange [BRF, 6 KB] Life at Red [BRF, 10 KB] --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [BRF, 6 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 5 KB] Getting free face masks [BRF, 2 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [BRF, 3 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [BRF, 3 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Getting your booster dose [BRF, 4 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] My Covid Record [BRF, 3 KB] My Vaccine Pass [BRF, 4 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [BRF, 1 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 testing [BRF, 4 KB] When you should get a test [BRF, 3 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] How contact tracing works [BRF, 4 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 4 KB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [BRF, 6 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [BRF, 2 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [BRF, 8 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travel within New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. --- Section Separator --- This page has lots of links to Easy Read information. Scroll down the page and click the boxes below to find more information. --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Easy Read: COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 13 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [PDF, 3.2 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 5.2 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [PDF, 1.3 MB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Getting free face masks [PDF, 1.4 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information about the traffic lights system. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Easy Read about travelling to and from New Zealand, and travelling around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information about the traffic lights system. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Easy Read about travelling to and from New Zealand, and travelling around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 3.9 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.4 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 3.9 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Isolation and care (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 9.5 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 2.7 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 5.2 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [PDF, 1.3 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 9.5 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 2.7 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 5.2 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 13 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [PDF, 3.2 MB] Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 10 MB] Wearing a face mask [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Getting free face masks [PDF, 1.4 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 13 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [PDF, 3.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 10 MB] Wearing a face mask [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Getting free face masks [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Large print and Audio: COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 544 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [MP3, 2.9 MB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting free face masks [MP3, 987 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 540 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [MP3, 894 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [MP3, 1.1 MB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to, from and around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to, from and around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 544 KB] Getting your booster dose [DOCX, 539 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.7 MB] Getting your booster dose [MP3, 10 MB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [MP3, 1.1 MB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] My Covid Record [DOCX, 539 KB] My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 541 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [DOCX, 538 KB] My Covid Record [MP3, 1.6 MB] My Vaccine Pass [MP3, 1.9 MB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [MP3, 357 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 544 KB] Getting your booster dose [DOCX, 539 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.7 MB] Getting your booster dose [MP3, 10 MB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [MP3, 1.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- My Covid Record [DOCX, 539 KB] My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 541 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [DOCX, 538 KB] My Covid Record [MP3, 1.6 MB] My Vaccine Pass [MP3, 1.9 MB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [MP3, 357 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 542 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 540 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 3.3 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [MP3, 894 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 537 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [MP3, 3.5 MB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 542 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 540 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 3.3 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [MP3, 894 KB] --- Section Separator --- Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 537 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [MP3, 3.5 MB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 544 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [MP3, 2.9 MB] Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [DOCX, 441 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 2.3 MB] Getting free face masks [MP3, 987 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [MP3, 1.4 MB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 537 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 544 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [MP3, 2.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [DOCX, 441 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 2.3 MB] Getting free face masks [MP3, 987 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [MP3, 1.4 MB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 537 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 testing [DOCX, 542 KB] When you should get a test [DOCX, 541 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 543 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [DOCX, 539 KB] About COVID-19 testing [MP3, 1.7 MB] When you should get a test [MP3, 1.4 MB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 2.8 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 541 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 542 KB] How contact tracing works [DOCX, 542 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.6 MB] How contact tracing works [MP3, 2.4 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 testing [DOCX, 542 KB] When you should get a test [DOCX, 541 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 543 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [DOCX, 539 KB] About COVID-19 testing [MP3, 1.7 MB] When you should get a test [MP3, 1.4 MB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 2.8 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 541 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 542 KB] How contact tracing works [DOCX, 542 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.6 MB] How contact tracing works [MP3, 2.4 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language: Be mindful of masks - Kia atawhai tātou ki a tātou (external link) Getting free face masks (external link) COVID-19 Information for parents (external link) Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people (external link) Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose (external link) After you have had COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Find out what you need to do if you are planning to travel to, from or around New Zealand. Find out about support available through the pandemic in New Zealand Sign Language --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Find out what you need to do if you are planning to travel to, from or around New Zealand. Find out about support available through the pandemic in New Zealand Sign Language
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Honoa mai ki ngā whakaohiti mō ngā pārongo KŌWHEORI-19 kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori --- Section Separator --- Anei ngā whakahoutanga KOWHEORI-19 hou rawa: Ngā rongoā mō te KOWHEORI-19 Medicines to treat COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Ko tā te kano ārai mate he tiaki i ō tamariki, tō whānau me tō hapori. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. Rapua ngā mahi hei whai māhau mēnā e whakaaro ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa, atu i Aotearoa, i roto rānei o Aotearoa. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo. --- Section Separator --- E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Ko tā te kano ārai mate he tiaki i ō tamariki, tō whānau me tō hapori. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. Rapua ngā mahi hei whai māhau mēnā e whakaaro ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa, atu i Aotearoa, i roto rānei o Aotearoa. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo.
Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 he tangata whaipānga tata koe i te kāinga, ā, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mō te nuinga o ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he ngāwari noa ngā tohumate, ā, ka taea te whakahaere i ēnei i te kāinga. Engari mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana te āwhina mēnā e hiahia ana koe. I muri i tō whakaoranga i te KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua puta i te noho taratahi, tērā ētahi āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, hei whakaarotanga māhau i a koe e whakamātūtū ana. Ka taea e ngā rongoā ārai huaketo KOWHEORI-19 te āwhina te tangata e noho mōrea ana ki te tino māuiui me te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 he tangata whaipānga tata koe i te kāinga, ā, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mō te nuinga o ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he ngāwari noa ngā tohumate, ā, ka taea te whakahaere i ēnei i te kāinga. Engari mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana te āwhina mēnā e hiahia ana koe. I muri i tō whakaoranga i te KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua puta i te noho taratahi, tērā ētahi āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, hei whakaarotanga māhau i a koe e whakamātūtū ana. Ka taea e ngā rongoā ārai huaketo KOWHEORI-19 te āwhina te tangata e noho mōrea ana ki te tino māuiui me te KOWHEORI-19.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Ngā rongoā mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Medicines to treat COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- E wātea ana ngā rongoā ārai huaketo KOWHEORI-19 hei whakamaimoa i te hunga e āhei ana kua pāngia e te mate, he tāngata pānga ā-kāinga rānei nō tētahi tangata kua pāngia e te mate KOWHEORI-19 i te kāinga. Me mātua tīmata ki te kai i ngā rongoā KOWHEORI-19 i roto i ngā rā e rima tuatahi o te pāngia e ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ina whiwhi i te tīmatanga o te pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19, kua kitea ka taea e ēnei rongoā te whakaiti te uru ki te hōhipera me te matenga. Kāore he utu mō ēnei rongoā ki te hunga e āhei ana e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e āhei ana, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tētahi tūtohutanga rongoā mai i tōu ake kaiwhakarato hauora, ka whakaratoa pea te rongoā me te kore tūtohutanga rongoā mai i ētahi taka rongoā. Mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me mātua noho taratahi koe i te kāinga nō reira me whakarite koe kia tukuna atu ngā rongoā ki a koe e ngā hoa, ngā whānau, mā tētahi atu tikanga rānei. Ka taea e ētahi taka rongoā te tuku atu ngā rongoā. Me pēhea te noho taratahi i te kāinga Ko te hunga he nui te mōrea o te tino māuiui mai i te KOWHEORI-19 kei te āhei atu ki ngā maimoatanga mā ngā rongoā KOWHEORI-19. Kia mohio : Kāore pea e tika ēnei rongoā mō te katoa, ahakoa ka ū pea rātau ki ngā whakaritenga. Me kōrero koe ki tō rata, tō taka rongoā rānei kia kite ai mēnā kei te āhei atu koe, mēnā rānei e tika tēnei rongoā ki a koe. Kia āhei atu mō te rongoā ārai huaketo KOWHEORI-19 me mātua: whai tohumate koe, ā, kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, tērā rānei whai tohumate, ā, he tangata pānga ā-kāinga o tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 Me mātua whai koe i tētahi o ēnei e whai ake: kei te tino raru tō pūnaha ārai mate he mate pūira kehe koe he mate pūtau toronaihi koe 75 tau, neke atu rānei tō pakeke kua whakaurua koe ki te wāhanga whāomoomo i mua nā te KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua pāngia anō koe e te mate Kei te āhei atu anō pea koe mēnā kei te ū koe ki ngā whakaritenga e rua, neke atu rānei i raro: he mate mōrea-nui atu anō ōu (external link) 50 tau, neke atu rānei tō pakeke he uri Māori koe, nō Te Moananui-a-Kiwa rānei kua werohia koe mō te KOWHEORI-19, kāore rānei i te eke ō werohanga KOWHEORI-19 Ka kitea ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te ahei atu i te paetukutuku a Pharmac (external link) , tae atu ki tana utauta aromatawai paearu urunga (external link) . E wātea ana ngā rongoā ārai huaketo KOWHEORI-19 e toru hei whakamaimoa i te hunga āhei ana kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori: nirmatrelvir me te ritonavir (ko Paxlovid te parani) molnupiravir (kua tapaina ko te Lagevrio) remdesivir, he maimoatanga ā-werohanga pōturi ki te ia-auraki (kua tapaina ko te Veklury). E 2 ngā rongoā o Paxlovid (nirmatrelvir me te ritonavir) ka kainga ngātahitia. Ka whakaiti i te nui o te huaketo kei roto i tō tinana. Ka kainga ngā pire Paxlovid mō te 5 rā. He mea nui te kōrero atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora noa, kaitaka rongoā mō ngā mate, me ngā rongoā, ngā rongoā otaota, ngā hua kai tāpiri rānei e kainga ana e koe. Kei pāngia te haumarutanga o Paxlovid. Mēnā i tukuna he ōta rongoā tōmua mō Paxlovid, ka hiahia tonu pea koe i tētahi aromatawai haumanu i mua i te whiwhi i ēnei rongoā. Haere ki te Kaiārahi Hauora mō ngā mōhiohio mō te Paxlovid, arā, me pēhea te whakapeto, ngā mea hei whakaarotanga i mua i tō whiwhi, me ngā pānga kino ka taea. He mōhiohio kei raro mō ngā hokinga mai pea o ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i muri tonu i te mutunga o te maimoatanga Paxlovid. Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te Paxlovid – Kaiārahi Hauora (external link) He rongoā te molnupiravir (Lagevrio) e whakaiti ana i te nui o te huaketo kei roto i tō tinana. Ka kainga ngā pire molnupiravir mō te 5 rā. Haere ki te Kaiārahi Hauora mō ngā mōhiohio mō te molnupiravir, arā, me pēhea te whakapeto, ngā mea hei whakaarotanga i mua i tō whiwhi, me ngā pānga kino ka taea. Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te molnupiravir – Kaiārahi Hauora (external link) He rongoā te remdesivir (Veklury) e whakaiti ana i te nui o te huaketo kei roto i tō tinana. Kotahi te tukunga i te rā, mō te 3 rā pea. Ka āta tukua mā te werohanga pōturi ki tō ia-auraki (e kīia nei he intravenous infusion), mō te 30 ki te 120 meneti. E wātea ana tēnei kōwhiringa i te hōhipera i te nuinga o te wā engari ka wātea anō pea i ētahi kaiwhakarato hapori, pērā i ngā wāhi tuawhenua Haere ki te Kaiārahi Hauora mō ngā mōhiohio mō te remdesivir, tae atu ki te wā ka tukuna me ngā pānga kino ka taea. Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te remdesivir – Kaiārahi Hauora (external link) Mēnā ki ōu whakaaro kei te āhei pea koe, me kōrero ki tō rata mā runga waea mō te whiwhi i tētahi ōta rongoā mō te rongoā KOWHEORI-19 e tika ana mōu. Ka āwhina ia i a koe ki te whiriwhiri mēnā e tika ana koe mō te rongoā huaketo. Kei runga i ētahi āhuatanga maha, pērā i ō tau, mātāwaka, ētahi atu mate me te tūnga werohanga. Mēnā ki ōu whakaaro kei te āhei atu pea koe, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi i ngā rongoā KOWHEORI-19 me te kore whai tūtohutanga mai i tō taka rongoā. Me kōrero ki tō taka rongoā mā runga waea kia kite ai mēnā e pai ana tērā mōu. Ka whakahaerehia e te taka rongoā he aromatawai haumanu me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu i mua i te tuku rongoā. Ka kitea ngā taka rongoā e whakarato ana i ngā ārai huaketo i Healthpoint (external link) . Me whai ōta rongoā i ēnei taka rongoā (external link) . Kāore e hiahiatia ana he tētahi ōta rongoā i ēnei taka rongoā (external link) . Mēnā kei te noho mōrea koe i te mate kino mai i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tētahi ōta rongoā mai i tō rata i mua i tō pāngia e te mate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka whakaritea mai e te taka rongoā te ōta rongoā hei whakamahi mēnā ka māuiui koe. Mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate me te pā mai o ngā tohumate, ka taea e koe te whakarite kia tukuna atu te rongoā e ō hoa, whānau rānei, mā tētahi atu tikanga, pērā i tō taka rongoā i ētahi āhuatanga. Me kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora kia kite ai mēnā ko te whiwhi ōta rongoā i mua i tō māuiuitanga te mea tika mōu. Tē taea e koe te whiwhi ōta rongoā hei heri ki tāwāhi mō te tūpono pā mai o te KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e hāereere ana. Mō ētahi tāngata, ka hoki mai pea ngā tohumate i muri i te otinga o te whiwhi Paxlovid. E mōhiotia ana tēnei ko te hokinga mai o te Paxlovid. Ko te āhua nei kāore pea te hunga e pāngia ana e te hokinga mai o te Paxlovid e pāngia kinotia. I te nuinga o te wā he māmā ngā tohumate, ā, ka taea te whakarite i roto i te toru rā. Ka pā noa mai ngā tohumate mō ētahi atu e whakaora mai ana i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ka kore atu, ka hoki mai anō i tētahi wā, ahakoa kua whiwhi rongoā ārai huaketo i mua. Me noho koe ki te kāinga ki te whakaora kia eke rā anō te 24 haora e kore ana ngā tohumate i a koe mēnā: ka hoki mai ō tohumate i muri i te otinga o te whiwhi Paxlovid mō te rima rā, ā, he 28 rā, iti iho rānei mai i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate tuatahi, kua kitea rānei kei te mate. Ehara i te mea me whiwhi Paxlovid anō koe mēnā ka hoki mai ō tohumate i tēnei wā. Me pānui mō te pāngia anō e te KOWHEORI-19 (external link) Mēnā he mate anō ōu, kei te kino haere atu rānei ō tohumate, waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora rānei. --- Section Separator --- E wātea ana ngā rongoā ārai huaketo KOWHEORI-19 hei whakamaimoa i te hunga e āhei ana kua pāngia e te mate, he tāngata pānga ā-kāinga rānei nō tētahi tangata kua pāngia e te mate KOWHEORI-19 i te kāinga. Me mātua tīmata ki te kai i ngā rongoā KOWHEORI-19 i roto i ngā rā e rima tuatahi o te pāngia e ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ina whiwhi i te tīmatanga o te pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19, kua kitea ka taea e ēnei rongoā te whakaiti te uru ki te hōhipera me te matenga. Kāore he utu mō ēnei rongoā ki te hunga e āhei ana e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e āhei ana, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tētahi tūtohutanga rongoā mai i tōu ake kaiwhakarato hauora, ka whakaratoa pea te rongoā me te kore tūtohutanga rongoā mai i ētahi taka rongoā. Mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me mātua noho taratahi koe i te kāinga nō reira me whakarite koe kia tukuna atu ngā rongoā ki a koe e ngā hoa, ngā whānau, mā tētahi atu tikanga rānei. Ka taea e ētahi taka rongoā te tuku atu ngā rongoā. Me pēhea te noho taratahi i te kāinga Ko te hunga he nui te mōrea o te tino māuiui mai i te KOWHEORI-19 kei te āhei atu ki ngā maimoatanga mā ngā rongoā KOWHEORI-19. Kia mohio : Kāore pea e tika ēnei rongoā mō te katoa, ahakoa ka ū pea rātau ki ngā whakaritenga. Me kōrero koe ki tō rata, tō taka rongoā rānei kia kite ai mēnā kei te āhei atu koe, mēnā rānei e tika tēnei rongoā ki a koe. Kia āhei atu mō te rongoā ārai huaketo KOWHEORI-19 me mātua: whai tohumate koe, ā, kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, tērā rānei whai tohumate, ā, he tangata pānga ā-kāinga o tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 Me mātua whai koe i tētahi o ēnei e whai ake: kei te tino raru tō pūnaha ārai mate he mate pūira kehe koe he mate pūtau toronaihi koe 75 tau, neke atu rānei tō pakeke kua whakaurua koe ki te wāhanga whāomoomo i mua nā te KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua pāngia anō koe e te mate Kei te āhei atu anō pea koe mēnā kei te ū koe ki ngā whakaritenga e rua, neke atu rānei i raro: he mate mōrea-nui atu anō ōu (external link) 50 tau, neke atu rānei tō pakeke he uri Māori koe, nō Te Moananui-a-Kiwa rānei kua werohia koe mō te KOWHEORI-19, kāore rānei i te eke ō werohanga KOWHEORI-19 Ka kitea ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te ahei atu i te paetukutuku a Pharmac (external link) , tae atu ki tana utauta aromatawai paearu urunga (external link) . E wātea ana ngā rongoā ārai huaketo KOWHEORI-19 e toru hei whakamaimoa i te hunga āhei ana kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori: nirmatrelvir me te ritonavir (ko Paxlovid te parani) molnupiravir (kua tapaina ko te Lagevrio) remdesivir, he maimoatanga ā-werohanga pōturi ki te ia-auraki (kua tapaina ko te Veklury). E 2 ngā rongoā o Paxlovid (nirmatrelvir me te ritonavir) ka kainga ngātahitia. Ka whakaiti i te nui o te huaketo kei roto i tō tinana. Ka kainga ngā pire Paxlovid mō te 5 rā. He mea nui te kōrero atu ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora noa, kaitaka rongoā mō ngā mate, me ngā rongoā, ngā rongoā otaota, ngā hua kai tāpiri rānei e kainga ana e koe. Kei pāngia te haumarutanga o Paxlovid. Mēnā i tukuna he ōta rongoā tōmua mō Paxlovid, ka hiahia tonu pea koe i tētahi aromatawai haumanu i mua i te whiwhi i ēnei rongoā. Haere ki te Kaiārahi Hauora mō ngā mōhiohio mō te Paxlovid, arā, me pēhea te whakapeto, ngā mea hei whakaarotanga i mua i tō whiwhi, me ngā pānga kino ka taea. He mōhiohio kei raro mō ngā hokinga mai pea o ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i muri tonu i te mutunga o te maimoatanga Paxlovid. Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te Paxlovid – Kaiārahi Hauora (external link) He rongoā te molnupiravir (Lagevrio) e whakaiti ana i te nui o te huaketo kei roto i tō tinana. Ka kainga ngā pire molnupiravir mō te 5 rā. Haere ki te Kaiārahi Hauora mō ngā mōhiohio mō te molnupiravir, arā, me pēhea te whakapeto, ngā mea hei whakaarotanga i mua i tō whiwhi, me ngā pānga kino ka taea. Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te molnupiravir – Kaiārahi Hauora (external link) He rongoā te remdesivir (Veklury) e whakaiti ana i te nui o te huaketo kei roto i tō tinana. Kotahi te tukunga i te rā, mō te 3 rā pea. Ka āta tukua mā te werohanga pōturi ki tō ia-auraki (e kīia nei he intravenous infusion), mō te 30 ki te 120 meneti. E wātea ana tēnei kōwhiringa i te hōhipera i te nuinga o te wā engari ka wātea anō pea i ētahi kaiwhakarato hapori, pērā i ngā wāhi tuawhenua Haere ki te Kaiārahi Hauora mō ngā mōhiohio mō te remdesivir, tae atu ki te wā ka tukuna me ngā pānga kino ka taea. Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te remdesivir – Kaiārahi Hauora (external link) Mēnā ki ōu whakaaro kei te āhei pea koe, me kōrero ki tō rata mā runga waea mō te whiwhi i tētahi ōta rongoā mō te rongoā KOWHEORI-19 e tika ana mōu. Ka āwhina ia i a koe ki te whiriwhiri mēnā e tika ana koe mō te rongoā huaketo. Kei runga i ētahi āhuatanga maha, pērā i ō tau, mātāwaka, ētahi atu mate me te tūnga werohanga. Mēnā ki ōu whakaaro kei te āhei atu pea koe, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi i ngā rongoā KOWHEORI-19 me te kore whai tūtohutanga mai i tō taka rongoā. Me kōrero ki tō taka rongoā mā runga waea kia kite ai mēnā e pai ana tērā mōu. Ka whakahaerehia e te taka rongoā he aromatawai haumanu me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu i mua i te tuku rongoā. Ka kitea ngā taka rongoā e whakarato ana i ngā ārai huaketo i Healthpoint (external link) . Me whai ōta rongoā i ēnei taka rongoā (external link) . Kāore e hiahiatia ana he tētahi ōta rongoā i ēnei taka rongoā (external link) . Mēnā kei te noho mōrea koe i te mate kino mai i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tētahi ōta rongoā mai i tō rata i mua i tō pāngia e te mate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka whakaritea mai e te taka rongoā te ōta rongoā hei whakamahi mēnā ka māuiui koe. Mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate me te pā mai o ngā tohumate, ka taea e koe te whakarite kia tukuna atu te rongoā e ō hoa, whānau rānei, mā tētahi atu tikanga, pērā i tō taka rongoā i ētahi āhuatanga. Me kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora kia kite ai mēnā ko te whiwhi ōta rongoā i mua i tō māuiuitanga te mea tika mōu. Tē taea e koe te whiwhi ōta rongoā hei heri ki tāwāhi mō te tūpono pā mai o te KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e hāereere ana. Mō ētahi tāngata, ka hoki mai pea ngā tohumate i muri i te otinga o te whiwhi Paxlovid. E mōhiotia ana tēnei ko te hokinga mai o te Paxlovid. Ko te āhua nei kāore pea te hunga e pāngia ana e te hokinga mai o te Paxlovid e pāngia kinotia. I te nuinga o te wā he māmā ngā tohumate, ā, ka taea te whakarite i roto i te toru rā. Ka pā noa mai ngā tohumate mō ētahi atu e whakaora mai ana i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ka kore atu, ka hoki mai anō i tētahi wā, ahakoa kua whiwhi rongoā ārai huaketo i mua. Me noho koe ki te kāinga ki te whakaora kia eke rā anō te 24 haora e kore ana ngā tohumate i a koe mēnā: ka hoki mai ō tohumate i muri i te otinga o te whiwhi Paxlovid mō te rima rā, ā, he 28 rā, iti iho rānei mai i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate tuatahi, kua kitea rānei kei te mate. Ehara i te mea me whiwhi Paxlovid anō koe mēnā ka hoki mai ō tohumate i tēnei wā. Me pānui mō te pāngia anō e te KOWHEORI-19 (external link) Mēnā he mate anō ōu, kei te kino haere atu rānei ō tohumate, waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 , ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora rānei. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te whaiwhai pānga, ā, me te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer --- Section Separator --- Mā te whaiwhai i te pātanga ka taea e mātau te kimi te hunga kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, tukuna haumarutia ō mōhiohio i runga ipurangi ki Te Manatū Hauora hei whakamōhio i ētahi atu mēnā me whiwhi āwhina atu anō koe, tautoko rānei i a koe e noho taratahi i te kāinga. --- Section Separator --- Mā te whaiwhai i te pātanga ka taea e mātau te kimi te hunga kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, tukuna haumarutia ō mōhiohio i runga ipurangi ki Te Manatū Hauora hei whakamōhio i ētahi atu mēnā me whiwhi āwhina atu anō koe, tautoko rānei i a koe e noho taratahi i te kāinga.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Me pēhea te whakamahi i te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 | How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form --- Section Separator --- Mā te tuari i ngā taipitopito mō ngā wāhi i haere koe kia tere ai te tautuhi i ngā wāhi tino mōrea me whiwhi tautoko pea hei tiaki i te hunga e tino mōrea ana i tō tātau hapori. Mā te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 ka taea e koe te tuari: Ngā taipitopito whakapā me te hauora Ngā tohumate Ngā tāngata pānga ā-kāinga Ngā wāhi tino mōrea Te rātaka COVID Tracer me ngā raraunga Hono Iarere Ina kitea kei te pāngia koe e tētahi whakamātautau PCR kei te mate koe, kua tukuna atu rānei e koe tō otinga RAT e whakaatu ana kua pāngia koe, ka tukuna he hono ki a koe me te uru ki te waehere mā te patowaea mai i te tau 2328 hei whakakī i tēnei puka. He tata ki te 20 meneti te roa mō te whakakī i tēnei puka. Mēnā kei te raru tō whakakī i tēnei puka, īmēra atu ki help@tracingform.min.health.nz waea atu rānei ki 0800 555 728 . He haumaru te rokiroki a Te Manatū Hauora i ēnei mōhiohio.  Ka whakamahia anake mō te whaiwhai i te pātanga me te tautuhi i ngā tautoko tāpiri ka hiahia pea koe. Ka tuarihia anake ngā mōhiohio ki ngā tari kei te āwhina me ēnei mahi. Pānuitia te tauākī tūmataitinga (external link) o te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19. Ina tīmataria e koe tēnei tukanga, me whakaoti e koe tēnei puka i te nōhanga kotahi mā te pūrere kotahi me te pūtirotiro kia kore ai e ngaro ngā raraunga kua tāurua kētia. Tāurua tō waehere urunga ka manatoko i tō tuakiri mā tō rā whānau. Tīpako ‘Get started’ (Te tīmata). Pānuitia ka pēhea te whakamahia i ngā mōhiohio ka tukuna e koe. Tohua te pouaka ka tīpako ‘Accept and continue’ (Whakaae ka haere tonu). Me whakarato ngā taipitopito whakapā kē, tae atu ki te wāhinoho e noho taratahi ana koe. Tīpako mēnā he hauātanga ōu, otirā mēnā he tangata hauā, he tangata whaikaha Māori rānei koe. Tīpako mēnā kei te hapū koe, i whakawhānau rānei i ngā ono wiki kua hipa. Tīpako mēnā kua raruraru pea tō ārai mate (kua whakaratoa ngā tauira o ngā mate). Me tuku i ngā taipitopito mō ō mate hauora taketake. Me kōrero ko ēhea ngā tohumate i pā mai me te wā i tīmata. Mēnā kāore anō kia pā mai ngā tohumate, me whakaū i tēnei, ā, ka whakamahia e mātau tō rā whakamātautau hei whakatau i tō wā hopuhopu mate. Me tuku mai ngā taipitopito o ō tāngata pānga ā-kāinga, tae atu ki te hunga kāore i te pūmau tō noho tahi, engari i noho koe mō tētahi wā o tō wā hopuhopu mate. Me whakaatu mēnā kua tae koe ki tētahi o ngā wāhi tino mōrea i te wā e hopuhopu ana tō mate. Mō ia rā e hopuhopu ana tō mate, ka pātaitia koe mēnā kua tae koe ki tētahi o ngā wāhi tino mōrea. Me whakamōhio atu koe ki ō tāngata whaipānga tata me tō wāhi mahi/mātauranga kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Ko ēnei tāngata i whai wāhi atu koe i te wā e hopuhopu ana tō mate me te kore mau ārai kanohi. Me tirotiro haere rātau mō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 mō te 10 rā me te haere kia whakamātautauhia mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate. Me tirotiro anō me te tuku i ngā mōhiohio kua tukuna e koe. Ka whakapā atu pea ki a koe mō ētahi atu taipitopito anō. Tuarihia ngā taipitopito mai i tō rātaka COVID Tracer, mēnā kei reira. He rite tonu te waehere tukuatu rātaka i whakamahia e koe hei uru atu ki te Puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 kei te SMS i whiwhi koe. Mēnā kei te hiahia āwhina koe kia noho taratahi koe, ka tukuna atu e mātou he hono ki a koe hei tono mō tēnei mai i Te Hiranga Tangata (MSD). Tīpako ‘Yes’ (Āe), ‘No’ (Kāo) rānei. Me mōhio ki ngā mōhiohio mō ngā mea whai ake, me pēhea te noho taratahi i te kāinga, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi pūtea me ētahi atu tautoko. --- Section Separator --- Mā te tuari i ngā taipitopito mō ngā wāhi i haere koe kia tere ai te tautuhi i ngā wāhi tino mōrea me whiwhi tautoko pea hei tiaki i te hunga e tino mōrea ana i tō tātau hapori. Mā te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 ka taea e koe te tuari: Ngā taipitopito whakapā me te hauora Ngā tohumate Ngā tāngata pānga ā-kāinga Ngā wāhi tino mōrea Te rātaka COVID Tracer me ngā raraunga Hono Iarere Ina kitea kei te pāngia koe e tētahi whakamātautau PCR kei te mate koe, kua tukuna atu rānei e koe tō otinga RAT e whakaatu ana kua pāngia koe, ka tukuna he hono ki a koe me te uru ki te waehere mā te patowaea mai i te tau 2328 hei whakakī i tēnei puka. He tata ki te 20 meneti te roa mō te whakakī i tēnei puka. Mēnā kei te raru tō whakakī i tēnei puka, īmēra atu ki help@tracingform.min.health.nz waea atu rānei ki 0800 555 728 . He haumaru te rokiroki a Te Manatū Hauora i ēnei mōhiohio.  Ka whakamahia anake mō te whaiwhai i te pātanga me te tautuhi i ngā tautoko tāpiri ka hiahia pea koe. Ka tuarihia anake ngā mōhiohio ki ngā tari kei te āwhina me ēnei mahi. Pānuitia te tauākī tūmataitinga (external link) o te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19. Ina tīmataria e koe tēnei tukanga, me whakaoti e koe tēnei puka i te nōhanga kotahi mā te pūrere kotahi me te pūtirotiro kia kore ai e ngaro ngā raraunga kua tāurua kētia. Tāurua tō waehere urunga ka manatoko i tō tuakiri mā tō rā whānau. Tīpako ‘Get started’ (Te tīmata). Pānuitia ka pēhea te whakamahia i ngā mōhiohio ka tukuna e koe. Tohua te pouaka ka tīpako ‘Accept and continue’ (Whakaae ka haere tonu). Me whakarato ngā taipitopito whakapā kē, tae atu ki te wāhinoho e noho taratahi ana koe. Tīpako mēnā he hauātanga ōu, otirā mēnā he tangata hauā, he tangata whaikaha Māori rānei koe. Tīpako mēnā kei te hapū koe, i whakawhānau rānei i ngā ono wiki kua hipa. Tīpako mēnā kua raruraru pea tō ārai mate (kua whakaratoa ngā tauira o ngā mate). Me tuku i ngā taipitopito mō ō mate hauora taketake. Me kōrero ko ēhea ngā tohumate i pā mai me te wā i tīmata. Mēnā kāore anō kia pā mai ngā tohumate, me whakaū i tēnei, ā, ka whakamahia e mātau tō rā whakamātautau hei whakatau i tō wā hopuhopu mate. Me tuku mai ngā taipitopito o ō tāngata pānga ā-kāinga, tae atu ki te hunga kāore i te pūmau tō noho tahi, engari i noho koe mō tētahi wā o tō wā hopuhopu mate. Me whakaatu mēnā kua tae koe ki tētahi o ngā wāhi tino mōrea i te wā e hopuhopu ana tō mate. Mō ia rā e hopuhopu ana tō mate, ka pātaitia koe mēnā kua tae koe ki tētahi o ngā wāhi tino mōrea. Me whakamōhio atu koe ki ō tāngata whaipānga tata me tō wāhi mahi/mātauranga kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Ko ēnei tāngata i whai wāhi atu koe i te wā e hopuhopu ana tō mate me te kore mau ārai kanohi. Me tirotiro haere rātau mō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 mō te 10 rā me te haere kia whakamātautauhia mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate. Me tirotiro anō me te tuku i ngā mōhiohio kua tukuna e koe. Ka whakapā atu pea ki a koe mō ētahi atu taipitopito anō. Tuarihia ngā taipitopito mai i tō rātaka COVID Tracer, mēnā kei reira. He rite tonu te waehere tukuatu rātaka i whakamahia e koe hei uru atu ki te Puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 kei te SMS i whiwhi koe. Mēnā kei te hiahia āwhina koe kia noho taratahi koe, ka tukuna atu e mātou he hono ki a koe hei tono mō tēnei mai i Te Hiranga Tangata (MSD). Tīpako ‘Yes’ (Āe), ‘No’ (Kāo) rānei. Me mōhio ki ngā mōhiohio mō ngā mea whai ake, me pēhea te noho taratahi i te kāinga, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi pūtea me ētahi atu tautoko. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti o ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei āhea whiwhi i tētahi, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi. Rapua ngā wāhi e taea ai e koe ngā mōhiohio pono mō te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti o ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei āhea whiwhi i tētahi, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi. Rapua ngā wāhi e taea ai e koe ngā mōhiohio pono mō te KOWHEORI-19
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine Te whiwhi i tō pota āpiti | Getting your booster dose --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 16 tau, e māraurau ana koe ki te pota āpiti o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau, ka taea e koe te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri i ō pota matua. Mēnā he 16, 17 hoki ō tau, ka taea e koe tō pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i ō pota matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea he whakature ngā pota āpiti, ā, kāore e hiahiatia ana e riro ai i a koe he Tohu Ārai Mate. Ki te whiwhi koe i tētahi pota āpiti, ka tāpiritia atu ki My Covid Record, ā, ka taea e koe te hanga i tētahi atu Tohu. Mēnā kua pāngia kētia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 me tatari mō te toru marama i muri i te rā o tō whakamātautau e tohu aha kei te pāngia koe, i mua i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te whiwhi i tētahi pota āpiti mā te: haere ki tētahi whare haumanu kano ārai mate kuhu noa whakarite i tētahi toronga ki tō tākuta, mēnā e tuku ana ia i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 tāpui mā Book My Vaccine, te waea rānei ki 0800 28 29 26 . Book My Vaccine (external link) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa mō ngā pota āpiti, ahakoa i whiwhi koe i tētahi kano ārai mate rerekē i āu pota i mua. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer Ahakoa he pai tonu te tiaki a ngā potanga e rua mai i tētahi mate kino o ngā momo KOWHEORI-19 Delta me te Omicron mō tētahi wā, ko te tikanga he kaha ake te tiaki a te pota āpiti i a koe. E whakaatu ana ngā whakaaturanga onāianei i tō kaha ārai mai i te whakapokenga i te hekenga haeretanga o te kano ārai mate matua i roto i te wā. Ka āwhina te whiwhi kano ārai mate ‘tāpiri’ i muri i tētahi potanga matua hei āwhina ki te whakakaha i tō ārai mate mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ko tā te pota āpiti he whakaheke i tō tūpono pānga ki te mate taumaha i te KOWHEORI-19, o te uru rānei ki te hōhipera. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te pota matua i tāwāhi, ka taea e koe te whiwhi i te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri mai i tō werohanga whakamutunga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau. Mēnā he 16, 17 hoki ō tau, ka taea e koe tō pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i ō pota whakamutunga kua whiwhi koe. E whakahautia ana he pota matua tuatoru mā te hunga awhikiri pahara. He rerekē tēnei i te pota āpiti. Ko te hunga e māraurau ana ki te pota matua tuatoru, ka āhei hoki ki te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri i te werohanga pota matua tuatoru mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau. Mēnā he pakeke ake i te 16, te 17 tau rānei ka taea tētahi pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i te pota matua tuatoru. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te pota matua tuatoru mēnā he awhikiri pahara tōu (external link) He ōrite ngā pānga kino o ngā pota āpiti ki ērā o ngā pota matua o te kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko te mamae, te whero o te kiri, te kōpuku, i te wāhi wero, te ānini, te paipairuaki me te ngenge, ruha rānei. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā pānga kino (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 16 tau, e māraurau ana koe ki te pota āpiti o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau, ka taea e koe te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri i ō pota matua. Mēnā he 16, 17 hoki ō tau, ka taea e koe tō pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i ō pota matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea he whakature ngā pota āpiti, ā, kāore e hiahiatia ana e riro ai i a koe he Tohu Ārai Mate. Ki te whiwhi koe i tētahi pota āpiti, ka tāpiritia atu ki My Covid Record, ā, ka taea e koe te hanga i tētahi atu Tohu. Mēnā kua pāngia kētia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 me tatari mō te toru marama i muri i te rā o tō whakamātautau e tohu aha kei te pāngia koe, i mua i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te whiwhi i tētahi pota āpiti mā te: haere ki tētahi whare haumanu kano ārai mate kuhu noa whakarite i tētahi toronga ki tō tākuta, mēnā e tuku ana ia i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 tāpui mā Book My Vaccine, te waea rānei ki 0800 28 29 26 . Book My Vaccine (external link) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa mō ngā pota āpiti, ahakoa i whiwhi koe i tētahi kano ārai mate rerekē i āu pota i mua. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer Ahakoa he pai tonu te tiaki a ngā potanga e rua mai i tētahi mate kino o ngā momo KOWHEORI-19 Delta me te Omicron mō tētahi wā, ko te tikanga he kaha ake te tiaki a te pota āpiti i a koe. E whakaatu ana ngā whakaaturanga onāianei i tō kaha ārai mai i te whakapokenga i te hekenga haeretanga o te kano ārai mate matua i roto i te wā. Ka āwhina te whiwhi kano ārai mate ‘tāpiri’ i muri i tētahi potanga matua hei āwhina ki te whakakaha i tō ārai mate mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ko tā te pota āpiti he whakaheke i tō tūpono pānga ki te mate taumaha i te KOWHEORI-19, o te uru rānei ki te hōhipera. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te pota matua i tāwāhi, ka taea e koe te whiwhi i te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri mai i tō werohanga whakamutunga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau. Mēnā he 16, 17 hoki ō tau, ka taea e koe tō pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i ō pota whakamutunga kua whiwhi koe. E whakahautia ana he pota matua tuatoru mā te hunga awhikiri pahara. He rerekē tēnei i te pota āpiti. Ko te hunga e māraurau ana ki te pota matua tuatoru, ka āhei hoki ki te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri i te werohanga pota matua tuatoru mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau. Mēnā he pakeke ake i te 16, te 17 tau rānei ka taea tētahi pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i te pota matua tuatoru. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te pota matua tuatoru mēnā he awhikiri pahara tōu (external link) He ōrite ngā pānga kino o ngā pota āpiti ki ērā o ngā pota matua o te kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko te mamae, te whero o te kiri, te kōpuku, i te wāhi wero, te ānini, te paipairuaki me te ngenge, ruha rānei. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā pānga kino (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home News and data Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Data and statistics available: COVID-19 cases Vaccine data COVID-19 data portal Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 5 September 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. This includes: current COVID-19 cases case demographics source of COVID-19 cases. We update this data every weekday. For weekend case numbers, visit the Ministry of Health website: COVID-19 current cases | Ministry of Health (external link) 257 Cases in hospital 257 Cases in hospital 1,401 New active cases (community and border) 1,401 New active cases (community and border) 1,778 7-day rolling average of community cases 1,778 7-day rolling average of community cases 13,201 Total active cases (community and border) 13,201 Total active cases (community and border) 37 People reinfected within 90 days of a previous infection 37 People reinfected within 90 days of a previous infection --- Section Separator --- You can filter case numbers by health districts, age groups, and first infections and reinfections. COVID-19 data charts | Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 5 September 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and deaths related to COVID-19. COVID-19 current cases data | Ministry of Health (external link) 6 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 6 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 1,915 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) 1,915 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) --- Section Separator --- From Monday 8 August 2022, we will be calculating the percentage of people vaccinated using an updated dataset. The Health System User dataset counts the number of people in New Zealand who have used health services over a 12-month period. This increased by 233,000 in 2021. Because the updated dataset is bigger, the percentage of those vaccinated has dropped. However, the number of people vaccinated has not changed. The dataset will be updated every 6 months so we can provide the most accurate information about vaccination coverage. Updated health user information informs COVID-19 vaccination programme | Te Whatu Ora (external link) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 5 September 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 91% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 91% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 90% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 90% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 267,003 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 267,003 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 148,827 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 148,827 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 2,723,639 Booster first doses 2,723,639 Booster first doses 519,175 Booster second doses 519,175 Booster second doses --- Section Separator --- Check our map to find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Last updated 5 September 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Testing for COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) 3,567 RATs reported in last 24 hours 3,567 RATs reported in last 24 hours 1,945 PCR tests in last 24 hours 1,945 PCR tests in last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | Stats NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- If data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and, for researchers, the ability to request detailed COVID-19 data. COVID-19 data resources | Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 1-10 of 1059 updates 05 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 29 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Aug 2022 New appointments have been made to the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group as well as extending the term of the group until December. 26 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 12pm. Speakers: Dr Andrew Old, Deputy-Director General and head of the Public Health Agency Dr Andrew Old, Deputy-Director General and head of the Public Health Agency Dr Pete Watson, Interim National Medical Director, Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand Dr Pete Watson, Interim National Medical Director, Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand Riana Manuel, Chief Executive, Ta Aka Whai Ora — Māori Health Authority --- Section Separator --- 4,489 new community cases 496 cases in hospital 3,975 7-day rolling average of community cases 28,940 active cases (community and border) 10,671 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,731 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 4,489 community cases and 496 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 3,975 – last Wednesday, it was 4,938. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations is 541 – last Wednesday, it was 630. There are now a total of 1,794 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 12. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
The Group was established in March 2021 to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health and modelling. Professor Nikki Turner will replace Sir David Skegg as Chair, following his decision to step down from the Group, and Professor Patricia Priest and Associate Professor Matire Harwood have been appointed as members. Dr Ella Iosua, Professor David Murdoch and Dr Maia Breweton have been reappointed to the Group, while Professor Philip Hill has chosen not to continue for the extended term due to international work commitments. Professor Turner is a current member of the Group, and is a GP and academic specialising in immunisation, primary healthcare and preventative child health at the University of Auckland. Professor Turner is also the Medical Director of the Immunisation Advisory Centre. Professor Patricia Priest is an infectious disease expert at the University of Otago and was previously a member of the Ministry of Health’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Group and is a current member of the COVID-19 Testing Technical Advisory Group. Associate Professor Harwood is a University of Auckland hauora Māori academic and GP and is also a member of the COVID-19 Vaccine Science and Technical Advisory Group. Minister for COVID-19 Response Dr Ayesha Verrall thanked Sir David for his stewardship of the Group since its establishment in March 2021, and Professor Hill for his tireless efforts supporting the COVID-19 response both as part of this group and the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group. The appointments come as the Group’s terms of reference are updated and its operations are extended until December 2022. Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group
2,066 new community cases 286 cases in hospital 2,023 7-day rolling average of community cases 14,155 active community cases 7,266 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,441 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 2,066 community cases, 286 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 2,023. Last Thursday it was 3,061. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 319. Last Wednesday it was 416. There are now a total of 1,908 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 7. This update is provided each Thursday. In the week to 28 August, 71 people were in Auckland and Counties Manukau hospitals with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). Enterovirus was detected in 64% of those tested, human metapneumovirus in 52%, rhinovirus in 38% and SARS-CoV-2 in 9%. Influenza was not detected in any of the 64 patients tested. Other causes of infection, where known, were adenovirus, parainfluenza virus and RSV. The current rate of hospitalisations in Auckland and Counties Manukau is in line with rates seen in pre-COVID-19 years. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
4,811 new community cases 533 cases in hospital 4,073 7-day rolling average of community cases 28,500 active community cases 11,640 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,115 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 4,811 community cases and 533 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 4,073 — last Tuesday, it was 5,120. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations is 556 — last Tuesday, it was 645. There are now a total of 1,782 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 13. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
4,540 new community cases 473 cases in hospital 3,928 7-day rolling average of community cases 27,487 active community cases 10,688 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,846 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 4,540 community cases and 473 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 3,928 – last Thursday, it was 4,750. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations is 527 – last Thursday, it was 617. There are now a total of 1,807 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 12. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
3,805 new community cases 466 cases in hospital 3,876 7-day rolling average of community cases 27,122 active community cases 9,418 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,631 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 3,805 community cases, 466 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 3,876 — last Friday it was 4,581. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations is 515 — last Friday, it was 609. There are now a total of 1,815 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 11. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
1,800 new community cases 269 cases in hospital 1,948 7-day rolling average of community cases 13,633 active community cases 6,594 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 2,803 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 1,800 community cases, 269 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 1,948. Last Friday it was 2,855. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 307. Last Friday it was 400. There are now a total of 1,910 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 6. Please note, the 1pm daily COVID-19 updates are now produced from Monday to Friday only, meaning there is no update on Saturday or Sunday. Some of the information, including the number of new community cases, is still updated on the Ministry of Health’s website daily. Monday’s COVID-19 update will also include some additional data covering the weekend. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
2,706 new community cases 432 cases in hospital 3,655 7-day rolling average of community cases 25,580 active community cases 5,502 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 2,095 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 2,706 community cases, 432 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 3,655 — last Monday, it was 4,230. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 472 — last Monday, it was 570. There are now a total of 1,824 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 10. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
3,693 new community cases 402 cases in hospital 3,496 7-day rolling average of community cases 24,466 active community cases 10,028 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,296 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 3,693 community cases and 402 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 3,496 — last Tuesday, it was 4,073. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 453 — last Tuesday, it was 556. There are now a total of 1,841 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 8. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
3,140 new community cases 373 cases in hospital 3,303 7-day rolling average of community cases 23,110 active community cases 8,592 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,600 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 3,140 community cases and 373 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 3,303 — last Wednesday it was 3,975. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 436 — last Wednesday it was 541. There are now a total of 1,845 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 7. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
2,780 new community cases 336 cases in hospital 3,061 7-day rolling average of community cases 21,420 active community cases 8,218 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,141 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 2,780 community cases and 336 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 3,061 — last Thursday it was 3,928. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 416 — last Thursday it was 527. There are now a total of 1,845 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now seven. Please note: The daily 1pm COVID-19 update is being fine-tuned to reflect the level of data provided daily on the Ministry of Health website. The key changes are that the update will now be produced from Monday to Friday and information about the COVID-19 vaccine response, already provided on the website each day during the week, will no longer be included in the daily 1pm update. These changes will begin after tomorrow (Friday, 26 August 2022). Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
2,318 new community cases 357 cases in hospital 2,855 7-day rolling average of community cases 19,997 active community cases 7,287 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,149 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 2,318 community cases and 357 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 2,855 — last Friday, it was 3,876. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations is 400 — last Friday, it was 515. There are now a total of 1,865 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 7. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Please note, the 1pm daily COVID-19 update will now be produced from Monday to Friday, meaning that from tomorrow there will be no update on Saturday or Sunday. Some of this information, including the number of new community cases, will still be updated on the Ministry of Health’s website over the weekend. This Monday’s COVID-19 update will also include some additional data covering the weekend.
1,653 new community cases 341 cases in hospital 2,425 7-day rolling average of community cases 16,968 active community cases 4,137 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 2,184 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 1,653 community cases, 341 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 2,425 — la st Monday it was 3,655. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 351 — last Monday it was 472. There are now a total of 1,869 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 6. In addition to the figures reported today, the Ministry of Health is also providing some testing and case figures reported on Saturday and Sunday, when the daily COVID-19 update is not published. Read the full update on today's cases and cases from the weekend | Ministry of Health (external link)
2,464 new community cases 314 cases in hospital 2,251 7-day rolling average of community cases 15,749 active community cases 2,789 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 8,337 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 2,464 community cases and 314 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 2,251 — last Tuesday it was 3,496. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 339 — last Tuesday it was 453. There are now a total of 1,884 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 6. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
2,244 new community cases 288 cases in hospital 2,122 7-day rolling average of community cases 14,854 active community cases 7,336 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,189 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 2,244 community cases, 288 current hospitalisations. COVID-19 hospitalisations and ICU occupancy have not been at levels this low since February this year. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 2,122 — last Wednesday it was 3,303. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 326 — last Wednesday it was 436. There are now a total of 1,893 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 7. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
1,296 new community cases 257 cases in hospital 1,778 7-day rolling average of community cases 12,446 active community cases 3,567 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 1,945 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 1,296 community cases, 257 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 1,778. Last Monday, it was 2,425. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations today is 273. Last Monday, it was 351. There are now a total of 1,915 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 6. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 11-20 of 1059 updates 23 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 18 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Aug 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 16 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 1011-1020 of 1059 updates 27 Aug 2020 The Government has set aside extra funding so we can access a COVID-19 vaccine once it becomes available. 26 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 25 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 24 Aug 2020 Auckland will stay at Alert Level 3 until 11:59pm on 30 August 2020. The rest of the country will remain at Alert Level 2. 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 1021-1030 of 1059 updates 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change.
Displaying 1031-1040 of 1059 updates 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening.
Displaying 1041-1050 of 1059 updates 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results.
Displaying 1051-1059 of 1059 updates 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 21-30 of 1059 updates 09 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2022 New Zealand will remain at the Orange traffic light setting, while hospitalisations remain elevated and pressure on the health system continues through winter. 08 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Aug 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 03 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Jul 2022 New Zealand’s international border opens to all visitors, including from non-visa waiver countries, and international students from 11:59pm, 31 July 2022. 31 Jul 2022 The same vaccination rules for passengers arriving by air will apply to arrivals on cruise ships and recreational vessels such as ocean-going yachts.
Displaying 31-40 of 1059 updates 29 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 21 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Jul 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 12pm.
Displaying 41-50 of 1059 updates 18 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 14 Jul 2022 The Government is rolling out additional measures to help tackle the second Omicron wave and record levels of flu to ease pressure on the health system. 14 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 14 Jul 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 12:30pm. 13 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Jul 2022 A computer glitch that double counted some cases already reported yesterday resulted in today’s case numbers being incorrectly reported. 08 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 51-60 of 1059 updates 07 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Jul 2022 Employers can consider text messages the Ministry of Health sends to people with COVID-19 and their household contacts as proof of needing time off work. 04 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 Jun 2022 New Zealand will remain at Orange, but enhanced measures for schools and a change in reinfection advice will help reduce the spread of COVID-19. 29 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Jun 2022 From 2 July 2022, the Government is removing the requirement for border and correction workers to be fully vaccinated.
Home News and data Media conferences Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. --- Section Separator --- There is no media briefing this week. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 media conference — 17 August 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 4 August 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 19 July 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 14 July 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 22 June 2022 --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. With Omicron, people who get symptoms will likely develop them within 3 to 8 days after infection. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. Some people with COVID-19 can pass it on to others 1 or 2 days before showing symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. If you have COVID-19 Some people who have tested positive for COVID-19 can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. This includes 1 follow-up check with your healthcare provider if required during those 6 weeks, once your acute episode of COVID-19 is over. After you have had the follow-up check, if you require one, and you no longer have acute COVID-19, you will then need to pay for your future visits to your doctor and prescription dispensing fees, just as you would for other medical conditions, even if it is within the 6-week period. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since a previous infection (either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms) and: you are low risk, you do not need to take another test — stay home and recover, until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms you have an underlying health condition or have COVID-19-like symptoms that are getting worse, you should seek advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. Get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why air ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off a surface is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough sore throat chest tightness chest pain difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' difficulty sleeping pins and needles dizziness joint pain muscle pain. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | Ministry of Health (external link) Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster Post COVID-19 condition | World Health Organization (external link) Long COVID | Health Navigator (external link) --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. With Omicron, people who get symptoms will likely develop them within 3 to 8 days after infection. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. Some people with COVID-19 can pass it on to others 1 or 2 days before showing symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. If you have COVID-19 Some people who have tested positive for COVID-19 can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. --- Section Separator --- You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. This includes 1 follow-up check with your healthcare provider if required during those 6 weeks, once your acute episode of COVID-19 is over. After you have had the follow-up check, if you require one, and you no longer have acute COVID-19, you will then need to pay for your future visits to your doctor and prescription dispensing fees, just as you would for other medical conditions, even if it is within the 6-week period. --- Section Separator --- If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since a previous infection (either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms) and: you are low risk, you do not need to take another test — stay home and recover, until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms you have an underlying health condition or have COVID-19-like symptoms that are getting worse, you should seek advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. Get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why air ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off a surface is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough sore throat chest tightness chest pain difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' difficulty sleeping pins and needles dizziness joint pain muscle pain. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Post COVID-19 condition | World Health Organization (external link) Long COVID | Health Navigator (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 Our response to Omicron --- Section Separator --- At Phase 3, the focus is on safely managing COVID-19 at home. This means we can keep our hospital beds free for people who are vulnerable and need medical treatment. There are thousands of new cases every day. Most people will self-manage at home. Health and social services will focus on families and communities that have the highest needs. You should only get a COVID-19 test if: you have symptoms, or you are a Household Contact — you live with someone who has COVID-19. Rapid antigen tests (RATs) are the main testing method for people with COVID-19 symptoms and Household Contacts. You can order RATs online or over the phone, to pick up at a site near you. You should record your RAT result — even if it is negative. You can record your result online through My Covid Record or by calling 0800 222 478 . How to get a COVID-19 test How to report your RAT result If you test positive, you will need to self-isolate for 7 days. If you have COVID-19 If you are a Household Contact, you will need to isolate for 7 days from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive. Do a RAT on Day 3 and Day 7 of their isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, you need to begin 7 days of self-isolation as a case. Household Contacts Close Contacts do not need to isolate, but should monitor for symptoms for 10 days. Close Contacts Critical workers can keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Conditions apply. Critical workers Self-service tools are available for people to provide information for contact tracing and case investigation. If you test positive you will be sent a text with a link to complete an online form to identify high-risk locations and people you have had contact with. The Ministry of Health will focus on supporting people who do not have access to or are not confident using technology. Bluetooth tracing continues to be used. Locations of interest will not be published during Phase 3. How contact tracing works If you are self-isolating at home, you can get help if you need essential supplies like food or medicine. If your symptoms worsen, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. They will tell you what you need to do next. Vulnerable people will have access to clinical care to help them self-isolate safely. Help if you are self isolating Financial support COVID-19 Support Payment for businesses | ird.govt.nz (external link) Cases have spread in the community, so we need to minimise and slow transmission to protect our vulnerable communities. There are some cases of COVID-19 in the community, but we continue to stamp it out. COVID-19 is still spreading in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Get your vaccine booster Vaccination for children --- Section Separator --- At Phase 3, the focus is on safely managing COVID-19 at home. This means we can keep our hospital beds free for people who are vulnerable and need medical treatment. --- Section Separator --- There are thousands of new cases every day. Most people will self-manage at home. Health and social services will focus on families and communities that have the highest needs. You should only get a COVID-19 test if: you have symptoms, or you are a Household Contact — you live with someone who has COVID-19. Rapid antigen tests (RATs) are the main testing method for people with COVID-19 symptoms and Household Contacts. You can order RATs online or over the phone, to pick up at a site near you. You should record your RAT result — even if it is negative. You can record your result online through My Covid Record or by calling 0800 222 478 . How to get a COVID-19 test How to report your RAT result If you test positive, you will need to self-isolate for 7 days. If you have COVID-19 If you are a Household Contact, you will need to isolate for 7 days from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive. Do a RAT on Day 3 and Day 7 of their isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, you need to begin 7 days of self-isolation as a case. Household Contacts Close Contacts do not need to isolate, but should monitor for symptoms for 10 days. Close Contacts Critical workers can keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Conditions apply. Critical workers Self-service tools are available for people to provide information for contact tracing and case investigation. If you test positive you will be sent a text with a link to complete an online form to identify high-risk locations and people you have had contact with. The Ministry of Health will focus on supporting people who do not have access to or are not confident using technology. Bluetooth tracing continues to be used. Locations of interest will not be published during Phase 3. How contact tracing works If you are self-isolating at home, you can get help if you need essential supplies like food or medicine. If your symptoms worsen, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. They will tell you what you need to do next. Vulnerable people will have access to clinical care to help them self-isolate safely. Help if you are self isolating Financial support COVID-19 Support Payment for businesses | ird.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Cases have spread in the community, so we need to minimise and slow transmission to protect our vulnerable communities. --- Section Separator --- There are some cases of COVID-19 in the community, but we continue to stamp it out. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is still spreading in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Get your vaccine booster Vaccination for children --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Our response to Omicron
This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. Popular topics What happens if you get COVID-19 Get a COVID-19 test Get RATs delivered If you cannot wear a face mask If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 About the traffic light system Get a booster Translations --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 disability helpline can provide assistance with vaccines, applying for face mask exemptions, advice on COVID-19 testing, and guidance with managing COVID-19 at home. This includes if your support worker or carer is unavailable. Call 0800 11 12 13 . If you are unable to call, you can text them on 8988. The COVID-19 welfare phone line can help if you are self-isolating and need food or other essential items. Call 0800 512 337 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- You may need a test if: you have symptoms of COVID-19 you live with someone who has COVID-19 you are travelling your job needs you to take tests. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 312 KB] You can order RATs online or over the phone to use at home. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. You will need access to a mobile phone to order online. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. Order RATs online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Order over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. Find your nearest testing centre: COVID-19 testing sites | Healthpoint (external link) Talk to your doctor or residential care provider. You can also get free advice from the Disability Healthline. Call 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 . If you have mobility or other accessibility challenges and are unable to leave your home to get to a collection site, you can arrange to have a RAT kit delivered to you. Free call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Report your positive or negative RAT result by phone or online. Reporting a result means you can get extra support if you need it while self-isolating. Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Online: My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- Report your positive RAT result online or over the phone. Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Online: My Covid Record (external link) If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with trusted, up-to-date information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so that you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . You need to self-isolate for 7 days. This means you must stay at home and try to avoid contact with people you live with. The people you live with also need to isolate. Start counting from Day 0. This is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive (whichever came first). Use the household isolation timeline tool (external link) Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 7 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. Advice for carers on supporting someone who has COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. --- Section Separator --- A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. You can get a booster now if: you are aged 18 or over and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course you are aged 16 or 17 and it has been 6 months since you completed your primary course. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition Some people who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. Vaccination for people who are severely immunocompromised | health.govt.nz (external link) A second booster is recommended for those at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a minimum of 6 months after a first booster. We will update this page with information about who is eligible and how to book in the next few weeks. To book your vaccination or get advice: call the Disability Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 text free to 8988 email accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz --- Section Separator --- Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. --- Section Separator --- Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. --- Section Separator --- Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Financial support Support is available if you need it when self-isolating because of COVID-19. Help when you are self-isolating If you test positive, let your support provider know that you have COVID-19 so they can put protective measures in place. Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow appropriate infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | Ministry of Health (external link) If you need urgent support and your support worker or carer is unavailable, you can call the dedicated disability helpline on 0800 11 12 13 . Or you can text them on 8988. This could be if: your support worker is unavailable and cannot provide the essential support you need you are unable to reach the organisation that normally provides your care there is no one available to provide the support you need. The 0800 11 12 13 service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, from 8am to 8pm. A person with experience or knowledge of disability will answer the call and assess the urgency of your situation and provide advice or assistance. After 8pm, calls will be answered by a trained member of the Healthline team. The call centre will work with you to determine what needs to happen, how urgent your situation is and if medical or other emergency services are needed. As always, if there is an emergency, or there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. Call the Ministry of Social Development's free COVID-19 Welfare line on 0800 512 337 . They can help you with: food and essential items mobile data so you can keep in contact with friends and whānau support for personal care or daily tasks talking to your employer if you are worried about your leave or pay mental health support support with family or sexual violence. Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others from COVID-19. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. For some people, an impairment, disability, or physical or mental health condition can mean wearing a mask is not possible. If you have a legitimate reason that means wearing a face mask is not suitable, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can also request a card by calling 0800 11 12 13 or by texting 8988. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- We are protecting Aoteroa New Zealand from COVID-19 using a system called the 'traffic lights'. Its official name is the COVID-19 Protection Framework. My Vaccine Passes are no longer required. Some businesses may choose to keep using them. You do not need to scan in when visiting a business or venue. There is a 200-person limit for indoor gatherings and events. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for disabled people If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If your support worker gets COVID-19, the disability support organisation they are from is responsible for finding a replacement. In some cases, they may only be able to provide essential services while your regular support worker recovers. Your support provider will check in with you about any changes. If you would prefer that a family member or friend support you instead, discuss this with your disability support organisation. If you usually get support from a family member or friend, or you individually contract support people, make a plan for alternate support in case they get COVID-19. Options could include: another family member or friend providing care for you over this time a paid carer to be arranged through a care support agency contacting your local Needs Assessment Service Co-ordination service (NASC). If you receive disability funded support, they will put you in contact with a disability support provider. Needs Assessment and Service Coordination services | health.govt.nz (external link) If you live in the same home as your carer, and they are well enough to continue providing care, they can do so. They will need appropriate infection prevention control and personal protective equipment. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) If you receive support in your home, it is important to have a support plan. This should include your important health information and care routines. If your regular carer becomes unwell and you need emergency care, this plan can be shared with the new carer. This means your care and support can continue safely. Your disability support provider can help you create a plan. You can also use the emergency care planning tools available on the Carers New Zealand website. Emergency care planning tools | carers.net.nz (external link) There are a few things to consider, specific to COVID-19: tolerance with medication tolerance around needles, etc tolerance around masks and nasal prongs anticipated staffing/supervision requirements. If you need urgent support and your support worker or carer is unavailable, you can call the dedicated COVID-19 disability helpline on 0800 11 12 13 . Or you can text them on 8988. This could be if: your support worker is unavailable and cannot provide the essential support you need you are unable to reach the organisation that normally provides your care there is no one available to provide the support you need. The service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Between 8am to 8pm a person with experience or knowledge of disability will answer the call and assess the urgency of your situation and provide advice or assistance. After 8pm, calls will be answered by a trained member of the Healthline team. The call centre will work with you to determine what needs to happen, how urgent your situation is and if medical or other emergency services are needed. As always, if there is an emergency, or there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. --- Section Separator --- If your support worker gets COVID-19, the disability support organisation they are from is responsible for finding a replacement. In some cases, they may only be able to provide essential services while your regular support worker recovers. Your support provider will check in with you about any changes. If you would prefer that a family member or friend support you instead, discuss this with your disability support organisation. --- Section Separator --- If you usually get support from a family member or friend, or you individually contract support people, make a plan for alternate support in case they get COVID-19. Options could include: another family member or friend providing care for you over this time a paid carer to be arranged through a care support agency contacting your local Needs Assessment Service Co-ordination service (NASC). If you receive disability funded support, they will put you in contact with a disability support provider. Needs Assessment and Service Coordination services | health.govt.nz (external link) If you live in the same home as your carer, and they are well enough to continue providing care, they can do so. They will need appropriate infection prevention control and personal protective equipment. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you receive support in your home, it is important to have a support plan. This should include your important health information and care routines. If your regular carer becomes unwell and you need emergency care, this plan can be shared with the new carer. This means your care and support can continue safely. Your disability support provider can help you create a plan. You can also use the emergency care planning tools available on the Carers New Zealand website. Emergency care planning tools | carers.net.nz (external link) There are a few things to consider, specific to COVID-19: tolerance with medication tolerance around needles, etc tolerance around masks and nasal prongs anticipated staffing/supervision requirements. --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent support and your support worker or carer is unavailable, you can call the dedicated COVID-19 disability helpline on 0800 11 12 13 . Or you can text them on 8988. This could be if: your support worker is unavailable and cannot provide the essential support you need you are unable to reach the organisation that normally provides your care there is no one available to provide the support you need. The service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Between 8am to 8pm a person with experience or knowledge of disability will answer the call and assess the urgency of your situation and provide advice or assistance. After 8pm, calls will be answered by a trained member of the Healthline team. The call centre will work with you to determine what needs to happen, how urgent your situation is and if medical or other emergency services are needed. As always, if there is an emergency, or there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. --- Section Separator --- Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 Support and information for seniors
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori --- Section Separator --- The best way to protect you, your whānau and your community from COVID-19 is to get vaccinated. Karawhiua provides trusted and up-to-date information on the vaccine for whānau and Māori communities. Be a doer! Karawhiua (external link) --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- At Red, there are restrictions on indoor gatherings at marae to help limit the spread of COVID-19, and protect the safety and wellbeing of whānau, hapū, and iwi . It is up to the leaders of the marae to decide whether to allow gatherings and whether gatherings are held inside or outside. Advice for marae at Red At Orange, g atherings at marae can go ahead. There are no restrictions on indoor or outdoor gatherings. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. Gatherings at Orange He kupu āwhina i ngā marae | COVID-19 guidance for marae [PDF, 4.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. Check out free services and resources Funding and support is available. Find more information from Te Puni Kōkiri. Funding and support | Te Puni Kōkiri (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Face masks Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. Find out when you must wear them, how to wear them safely, who is exempt, and how to get free face masks. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help prevent the spread of COVID-19 in 2 ways. They reduce the number of virus particles someone with COVID-19 can spread. They prevent you from inhaling virus particles. The best protection is when everyone wears a face mask. How to wear a face mask safely --- Section Separator --- You can get free medical face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. You still need to order through the Request free COVID-19 RAT kits website. Request free RATs | Ministry of Health (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find where a mask does not need to be worn, who does not need to wear one, and how to get a Mask Exemption Pass if you need one. Different types of face masks offer different protection. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting with no gaps and used correctly and consistently. This will help to protect you and others from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. It should go over your nose, mouth and chin. It should be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides. You can easily make a fabric face mask. It should have 3 layers, with 1 layer of moisture-resistant fabric. It should have loops around your ears or head. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find where a mask does not need to be worn, who does not need to wear one, and how to get a Mask Exemption Pass if you need one. Different types of face masks offer different protection. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting with no gaps and used correctly and consistently. This will help to protect you and others from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. It should go over your nose, mouth and chin. It should be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides. You can easily make a fabric face mask. It should have 3 layers, with 1 layer of moisture-resistant fabric. It should have loops around your ears or head. --- Section Separator --- How face masks work to protect you and others from COVID-19 The importance of masks with Dr Ashley Bloomfield How to wear a face mask safely Supporting those unable to wear face masks Supporting those unable to wear masks — New Zealand Sign Language Supporting those unable to wear masks — with audio description --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Face masks How to wear a face mask safely --- Section Separator --- Never share face masks with other people. Your face mask should go over your nose, mouth and chin. It should be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides. Do not re-use a face mask once it has become damp, damaged or dirty. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. They still have the right to access food and services. Before you put on your face mask, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Place the face mask over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face mask should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. The effectiveness of a face mask can be improved by making sure your mask is tightly fitted to prevent any air gaps between the mask and your face. Clean or sanitise your hands first. Fold the mask top to bottom. Tie a knot where the string attaches to the mask and pull tight. Do this on both sides of the mask. Place the face mask over your nose, mouth and chin. Fit the mask comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face. Make sure you mould the nose wire to your nose and there are no gaps at the sides. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your mask down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your mask off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the mask, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth masks by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the mask completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp mask. Dispose of used face masks in your general household rubbish bin. Do not put them in the recycling. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. How to put on and take off a medical face mask [PDF, 294 KB] How to put on and take off a P2/N95 face mask [PDF, 702 KB] How to make your medical face mask fit tightly [PDF, 146 KB] --- Section Separator --- Never share face masks with other people. Your face mask should go over your nose, mouth and chin. It should be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides. Do not re-use a face mask once it has become damp, damaged or dirty. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. They still have the right to access food and services. --- Section Separator --- Before you put on your face mask, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Place the face mask over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face mask should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- The effectiveness of a face mask can be improved by making sure your mask is tightly fitted to prevent any air gaps between the mask and your face. Clean or sanitise your hands first. Fold the mask top to bottom. Tie a knot where the string attaches to the mask and pull tight. Do this on both sides of the mask. Place the face mask over your nose, mouth and chin. Fit the mask comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face. Make sure you mould the nose wire to your nose and there are no gaps at the sides. --- Section Separator --- If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your mask down below your chin. --- Section Separator --- Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your mask off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the mask, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth masks by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the mask completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp mask. Dispose of used face masks in your general household rubbish bin. Do not put them in the recycling. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- How to put on and take off a medical face mask [PDF, 294 KB] How to put on and take off a P2/N95 face mask [PDF, 702 KB] How to make your medical face mask fit tightly [PDF, 146 KB] --- Section Separator --- Face masks When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Keep track of where you have been Ventilation and COVID-19
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Face masks Types of face masks --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. To be effective, a face mask should: go over your nose, mouth and chin be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides be used correctly and consistently not be damp, damaged or dirty. A face mask that is not fitted correctly may become ineffective. It may not offer enough protection for you or those around you against COVID-19 spreading. How to wear a face mask safely Different types of face masks can provide different levels of protection, depending on the type of mask and how they are used. You should find a face mask that best fits you. There are several things you should think about when choosing a face mask for you. This includes: your risk of illness from COVID-19 how well the face mask fits you layers and the filtration ability of the material comfort of the face mask. Whatever face mask you choose, remember any face mask is better than no face mask. You can use a fabric face mask. The effectiveness of fabric face masks can vary depending on the style and materials used. You should look for reusable fabric face masks that have at least 3 layers and are made of tightly woven fabric, such as cotton. Ideally face masks should also use 2 different types of fabric that still allow easy breathing but provide filtration and a good fit. Face masks with more than one layer will help contain any respiratory droplets. You can increase protection of your fabric face mask by adding a ‘filter layer’ and a nose bridge wire to mould the face mask to your face. A filter layer could be a specific face mask filter or a cut-down disposable face mask to add to a face mask pocket. Fabric face masks can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. Taking care of your face mask is important. You should wash fabric face masks daily using soap and hot water, and completely dry them before using again. You should have enough face masks to at least wash one and wear one. Check for wear and tear to make sure there are no holes and they are still in good condition. Many stores and online retailers offer these types of face masks. You can also make your own but make sure it has at least 3 layers. How to make a face covering Disposable face masks with ear loops can offer better protection for a longer period than fabric face masks. Especially when you are in a higher-risk indoor setting. These are the widely available ‘blue’ medical masks. They are often called ‘medical’, ‘surgical’ and ‘procedural’ masks. For use in healthcare, they must comply to a certain standard. Many surgical masks may not be certified to medical standards, but still provide effective protection. You can find these at many retail stores, supermarkets or pharmacies. Some relevant social services agencies or organisations may also be able to provide some. To make these masks fit better and get a snug fit: pinch the nose wire try layering them with a fabric mask over top knot the ear loops where they attach to the mask, then fold and tuck excess material under the edges try pulling the ear loops back and securing them with a hair tie or clip. How to wear a face mask safely Try to avoid twisting the ear loop into a figure 8, as this will likely cause a side gap that could let virus particles in. Double masking or layering can provide greater protection. The other layer, preferably a fabric mask, can help stop any leaks around the top and sides of the bottom mask. To reuse these masks, you can soak them in warm, hot or boiling water for a few minutes and hang them out to dry. You can do this up to 10 times. When they start to show wear or no longer have a good fit, dispose of them in your general household rubbish bin. Disposable high-filtration face masks or particulate respirators offer the highest level of protection when used correctly. For people who are at greater risk of severe illness from COVID-19, the use of a P2/N95 face mask may be a better choice for you. If you choose to wear this type of face mask, it is important to follow the manufacturer's instructions on how to mold these face masks to your face. You need to make sure there are no gaps and you have a tight seal against your face. These face masks can offer hours of protection when in high-risk indoor settings where there is no or little ventilation. But they need to have a very tight seal around the face to provide better protection than a well-fitting medical mask. In healthcare settings, these face masks work best when a person is ‘fit tested’ to make sure they have the right type of face mask that suits their face. Do not wash these face masks. These face masks have a special static charge that traps viruses. You can reuse these face masks several times if you leave them for a few days between each use in a cool, dry place. If they no longer provide a tight seal around your face, or are dirty or damaged, then you should dispose of them in your general household rubbish bin. Particulate respirator face masks come in a variety of models, prices, availability and suitability. They are often identified by which international regulatory standard they meet. P2 is the Australia/New Zealand respiratory standard. N95 is the United States respiratory standard. KN95 is the Chinese respiratory standard. FFP2 is the European respiratory standard. Choose a face mask for children that fits them best, is comfortable to wear and can be worn consistently. The face mask should cover their nose, mouth, and chin without gaps above, below or on the sides. This can be a reusable fabric mask with 3 layers or a medical disposable mask. Many fabric masks (either purchased or made) come in child sizes. For commonly available medical masks, you can use the knot and tuck technique to improve the fit to a child's face. How to make a face mask fit tightly These types of face masks or coverings provide very little protection against transmission of COVID-19. A face shield is not recommended to be worn instead of a face mask as it will provide very little protection against droplets or aerosol spray. Dust masks or particulate respirators that have a 1-way valve are not recommended as they can allow particles from you to spread to others. Masks that are showing wear and tear. If there is any thinning of the material, holes, or the ties or elastic loops can no longer keep the mask in place, you should replace it. Scarves, bandannas, buffs or t-shirts are no longer acceptable as face coverings. --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. To be effective, a face mask should: go over your nose, mouth and chin be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides be used correctly and consistently not be damp, damaged or dirty. A face mask that is not fitted correctly may become ineffective. It may not offer enough protection for you or those around you against COVID-19 spreading. How to wear a face mask safely --- Section Separator --- Different types of face masks can provide different levels of protection, depending on the type of mask and how they are used. You should find a face mask that best fits you. There are several things you should think about when choosing a face mask for you. This includes: your risk of illness from COVID-19 how well the face mask fits you layers and the filtration ability of the material comfort of the face mask. Whatever face mask you choose, remember any face mask is better than no face mask. --- Section Separator --- You can use a fabric face mask. The effectiveness of fabric face masks can vary depending on the style and materials used. You should look for reusable fabric face masks that have at least 3 layers and are made of tightly woven fabric, such as cotton. Ideally face masks should also use 2 different types of fabric that still allow easy breathing but provide filtration and a good fit. Face masks with more than one layer will help contain any respiratory droplets. You can increase protection of your fabric face mask by adding a ‘filter layer’ and a nose bridge wire to mould the face mask to your face. A filter layer could be a specific face mask filter or a cut-down disposable face mask to add to a face mask pocket. Fabric face masks can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. Taking care of your face mask is important. You should wash fabric face masks daily using soap and hot water, and completely dry them before using again. You should have enough face masks to at least wash one and wear one. Check for wear and tear to make sure there are no holes and they are still in good condition. Many stores and online retailers offer these types of face masks. You can also make your own but make sure it has at least 3 layers. How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- Disposable face masks with ear loops can offer better protection for a longer period than fabric face masks. Especially when you are in a higher-risk indoor setting. These are the widely available ‘blue’ medical masks. They are often called ‘medical’, ‘surgical’ and ‘procedural’ masks. For use in healthcare, they must comply to a certain standard. Many surgical masks may not be certified to medical standards, but still provide effective protection. You can find these at many retail stores, supermarkets or pharmacies. Some relevant social services agencies or organisations may also be able to provide some. To make these masks fit better and get a snug fit: pinch the nose wire try layering them with a fabric mask over top knot the ear loops where they attach to the mask, then fold and tuck excess material under the edges try pulling the ear loops back and securing them with a hair tie or clip. How to wear a face mask safely Try to avoid twisting the ear loop into a figure 8, as this will likely cause a side gap that could let virus particles in. Double masking or layering can provide greater protection. The other layer, preferably a fabric mask, can help stop any leaks around the top and sides of the bottom mask. To reuse these masks, you can soak them in warm, hot or boiling water for a few minutes and hang them out to dry. You can do this up to 10 times. When they start to show wear or no longer have a good fit, dispose of them in your general household rubbish bin. --- Section Separator --- Disposable high-filtration face masks or particulate respirators offer the highest level of protection when used correctly. For people who are at greater risk of severe illness from COVID-19, the use of a P2/N95 face mask may be a better choice for you. If you choose to wear this type of face mask, it is important to follow the manufacturer's instructions on how to mold these face masks to your face. You need to make sure there are no gaps and you have a tight seal against your face. These face masks can offer hours of protection when in high-risk indoor settings where there is no or little ventilation. But they need to have a very tight seal around the face to provide better protection than a well-fitting medical mask. In healthcare settings, these face masks work best when a person is ‘fit tested’ to make sure they have the right type of face mask that suits their face. Do not wash these face masks. These face masks have a special static charge that traps viruses. You can reuse these face masks several times if you leave them for a few days between each use in a cool, dry place. If they no longer provide a tight seal around your face, or are dirty or damaged, then you should dispose of them in your general household rubbish bin. Particulate respirator face masks come in a variety of models, prices, availability and suitability. They are often identified by which international regulatory standard they meet. P2 is the Australia/New Zealand respiratory standard. N95 is the United States respiratory standard. KN95 is the Chinese respiratory standard. FFP2 is the European respiratory standard. --- Section Separator --- Choose a face mask for children that fits them best, is comfortable to wear and can be worn consistently. The face mask should cover their nose, mouth, and chin without gaps above, below or on the sides. This can be a reusable fabric mask with 3 layers or a medical disposable mask. Many fabric masks (either purchased or made) come in child sizes. For commonly available medical masks, you can use the knot and tuck technique to improve the fit to a child's face. How to make a face mask fit tightly --- Section Separator --- These types of face masks or coverings provide very little protection against transmission of COVID-19. A face shield is not recommended to be worn instead of a face mask as it will provide very little protection against droplets or aerosol spray. Dust masks or particulate respirators that have a 1-way valve are not recommended as they can allow particles from you to spread to others. Masks that are showing wear and tear. If there is any thinning of the material, holes, or the ties or elastic loops can no longer keep the mask in place, you should replace it. Scarves, bandannas, buffs or t-shirts are no longer acceptable as face coverings. --- Section Separator --- Face masks When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Keep track of where you have been Ventilation and COVID-19
Home Prepare and stay safe Misinformation, scams and online harm Get the facts You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- You can find the most accurate and reliable information about the COVID-19 vaccine from a number of trusted sources, including: Find answers to all your vaccine questions, including how safe it is and what side effects you might get, and watch videos about vaccines. COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Check out the health advice for you about COVID-19, vaccines, testing, how to take care of yourself and much more. COVID-19: Health advice for the public | Ministry of Health (external link) Find trusted information for you and your whānau on Karawhiua. It is a campaign to help whānau, hapū, iwi, and Māori communities make an informed choice about the COVID-19 vaccine. Karawhiua (external link) When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. Watch videos to find out about the vaccination journey and how COVID-19 vaccines work. COVID-19 information | Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) The Immunisation Advisory Centre (IMAC) provides New Zealanders with a local source of independent, factual information based on international and New Zealand scientific research regarding vaccine-preventable diseases and the benefits and risks of immunisation. Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) The World Health Organization works worldwide to promote health, keep the world safe, and serve the vulnerable. World Health Organization (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may need to engage with someone or a group who are spreading false and misleading information within your community or online. It is easy to feel compelled to go and directly confront them. This is not the ideal approach and it may not always be obvious to them what information is not true or factual. Here are some tips on how you might address the situation: Check if the information is false. You can do this by going to reliable sources above. Acknowledge their concerns and fears. Do not mock them for having fears or vaccine concerns. Decide if it is best to engage directly. It may be best to send them a message or talk to them privately about what they have said. If they have posted on social media and are getting a lot of interest you may want to report it to the platform. You have the option to remain anonymous. Try to find areas you can both agree on. If the person you are engaging with gets defensive and you feel that it is no longer constructive, it may be best not to proceed. Share accurate resources. If we share accurate, verified information we might encourage others too. Download printed guidance for responding to false information. Guidance for responding to false information [PDF, 759 KB] --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. --- Section Separator --- Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video
Home Prepare and stay safe Misinformation, scams and online harm Report false or misleading information If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. --- Section Separator --- We can all help stop the spread of misinformation by reporting fake accounts, or pages and domains that repeatedly post or share misinformation. Most misinformation and disinformation is legal. And people have the right to express their opinion. But if you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here is how to do it: How do I mark a Facebook post as false news? — Facebook.com (external link) Report inappropriate content — YouTube.com (external link) Report a tweet, list or direct message — Twitter.com (external link) Reduce the spread of false information — Instagram.com (external link) Staying safe on Whatsapp — WhatsApp.com (external link) Report a problem — TikTok.com (external link) Report to Netsafe any online harms including bullying and harassment, misinformation and hate speech/extremism. Report harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) Misinformation, including leaflets and scams, can also be reported to CERT NZ. Report COVID-19 misinformation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Scammers look for ways to trick people into sharing their personal or financial details. Scams and fraud exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: the COVID-19 vaccine is free you will never be asked to pay for the vaccine or pay to secure your place in the queue we will never ask for your financial details, your bank card details, PIN or banking password official information about the vaccine will come from a trusted provider of health content, such as the Ministry of Health, Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand, Unite against COVID-19, or your local district health provider a health worker will never come to your home to give you the vaccine, unless arranged with you beforehand if you receive an email, phone call, text message, or instant message asking for financial details in regards to the vaccine it will be a scam. Report it to CERT NZ immediately. CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for misinformation and online scams. Find out how to report a COVID-19 scam or misinformation — CERT NZ (external link) Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) --- Section Separator --- If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police on 105 . Call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video
Home Testing and tracing Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. What you need to know When to test for COVID-19 Household Contacts Travellers and testing requirements If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. Information about contact tracing and how it allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. --- Section Separator --- Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. Information about contact tracing and how it allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate.
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Contact tracing helps notify people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, how to support contact tracing if you test positive, and getting alerts from the NZ COVID Tracer app. You are a Household Contact if you live with, or spend a night with, someone who tests positive for COVID-19. Many Household Contacts must isolate for 7 days. You are a Close Contact if you had contact with someone with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to isolate. Some Household Contacts can return to work under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme or as a 'bubble of 1'. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, how to support contact tracing if you test positive, and getting alerts from the NZ COVID Tracer app. You are a Household Contact if you live with, or spend a night with, someone who tests positive for COVID-19. Many Household Contacts must isolate for 7 days. You are a Close Contact if you had contact with someone with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to isolate. Some Household Contacts can return to work under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme or as a 'bubble of 1'.
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Critical workers --- Section Separator --- Workers at registered critical services who are Household Contacts may be able to go to work during their isolation period. Who is a Household Contact Close Contacts are not eligible for the scheme, as they are not required to isolate. To qualify for an isolation exemption as a critical worker, you must: be seen as critical by your employer work in a critical service, listed below be vaccinated not have COVID-19 symptoms negative result on an unsupervised rapid antigen test (RAT) before each workday or shift during your isolation period follow specific health protocols. You can only leave isolation to go to work or to collect free RATs — you cannot go anywhere else. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria for the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. How to get free RATs How to report your RAT results Critical services include: food production and its supply chain public services such as health and emergency services lifeline utilities such as power and water supplies transport critical financial services news media social welfare human and animal health and welfare. Businesses and organisations can self-assess and sign up to the scheme on business.govt.nz: Close Contact Exemption Scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) 'Bubble of 1' applies to any worker or sole trader, not just critical workers, who are Household Contacts. To work as a 'bubble of 1' during your isolation period, you must: be vaccinated not have COVID-19 symptoms have no contact with other people at work, including customers or other workers. You do not need to use rapid antigen tests (RATs) to return to work and businesses do not need to register for the 'bubble of 1'. Bubble of 1 for workers who are contacts | business.govt.nz (external link) Critical workers must wear a face mask at work under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme, even if they do not usually need to wear a mask. If you cannot wear a mask, you cannot go to work under the scheme — even if you have a mask exemption. 'Bubble of 1' workers may need to wear face masks at work. --- Section Separator --- Workers at registered critical services who are Household Contacts may be able to go to work during their isolation period. Who is a Household Contact Close Contacts are not eligible for the scheme, as they are not required to isolate. To qualify for an isolation exemption as a critical worker, you must: be seen as critical by your employer work in a critical service, listed below be vaccinated not have COVID-19 symptoms negative result on an unsupervised rapid antigen test (RAT) before each workday or shift during your isolation period follow specific health protocols. You can only leave isolation to go to work or to collect free RATs — you cannot go anywhere else. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria for the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. How to get free RATs How to report your RAT results --- Section Separator --- Critical services include: food production and its supply chain public services such as health and emergency services lifeline utilities such as power and water supplies transport critical financial services news media social welfare human and animal health and welfare. Businesses and organisations can self-assess and sign up to the scheme on business.govt.nz: Close Contact Exemption Scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- 'Bubble of 1' applies to any worker or sole trader, not just critical workers, who are Household Contacts. To work as a 'bubble of 1' during your isolation period, you must: be vaccinated not have COVID-19 symptoms have no contact with other people at work, including customers or other workers. You do not need to use rapid antigen tests (RATs) to return to work and businesses do not need to register for the 'bubble of 1'. Bubble of 1 for workers who are contacts | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Critical workers must wear a face mask at work under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme, even if they do not usually need to wear a mask. If you cannot wear a mask, you cannot go to work under the scheme — even if you have a mask exemption. 'Bubble of 1' workers may need to wear face masks at work. --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Household Contacts must isolate for 7 days and get tested. If you have had COVID-19 in the past 3 months, you do not need to isolate again. If you have completed your isolation as a household contact in the last 10 days, you do not need to isolate again. Work out your isolation dates using the COVID-19 Health Hub tool. Use the isolation timeline tool | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Find more information and advice | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) You are a Household Contact if you: normally live in a house or flat on a permanent or part-time basis (for example, shared custody) with a person who has tested positive, and you spent at least 1 night or day (more than 8 hours) in that residence while the person was infectious. You are also a Household Contact if you do not normally share a residence with the person who has COVID-19, but have spent a night together in the same room. For people who are travelling or holidaying around New Zealand, Household Contacts include people who are sharing non-communal holiday accommodation such as a: hotel room tent campervan temporary holiday home (such as a bach, Airbnb or similar). If you get COVID-19 while travelling The following people may be Close Contacts, but are not Household Contacts: People who live in the same group accommodation as the person with COVID-19 (for example, in aged residential care facilities, halls of residences, boarding houses, hostels, backpackers, and transitional housing). Advice for Close Contacts Whether you are fully vaccinated or not, you will need to: isolate for 7 days, starting from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive or their symptoms started — whichever came first, and get a test for COVID-19 on Day 3 , and on Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, follow the guidance for people with COVID-19. If you develop symptoms but test negative, do another rapid antigen test (RAT) 48 hours later. While you are isolating, try to avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. How to get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 Your isolation ends at the same time as the first person in your household who had COVID-19 if: your Day 7 test was negative you have no new or worsening symptoms. You can work out your isolation dates using the tool on the COVID-19 Health Hub: Create your household isolation timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) If more than 1 person in your household tests positive after the first person, you do not need to restart your isolation period. You also do not need to isolate again if you have completed isolation as a household contact in the last 10 days. Only restart your 7-day isolation period if you test positive on Day 3 or Day 7, or develop new or worsening symptoms. You can work out your isolation dates using the tool on the COVID-19 Health Hub: Create your household isolation timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months if someone you live with tests positive. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. If you develop cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection — either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms — they may be related to your last infection. Stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you become increasingly unwell, seek help from your GP. If you develop new cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms and it has been 29 days or more since of your previous infection, and you are at low risk of severe illness, we recommend you take a COVID-19 test. If it is positive you must self-isolate for 7 days. If you have an underlying health condition or have symptoms that are getting worse, seek advice from a health practitioner or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19 Critical workers may be able to go to work during their isolation period through the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Critical workers need to be vaccinated, have no COVID-19 symptoms and have a negative rapid antigen test (RAT) before going to work each day. When you are not at work, you must isolate. Your employer will let you know if the scheme applies to you. Critical workers There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Find out what financial support is available --- Section Separator --- Household Contacts must isolate for 7 days and get tested. If you have had COVID-19 in the past 3 months, you do not need to isolate again. If you have completed your isolation as a household contact in the last 10 days, you do not need to isolate again. Work out your isolation dates using the COVID-19 Health Hub tool. Use the isolation timeline tool | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Find more information and advice | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are a Household Contact if you: normally live in a house or flat on a permanent or part-time basis (for example, shared custody) with a person who has tested positive, and you spent at least 1 night or day (more than 8 hours) in that residence while the person was infectious. You are also a Household Contact if you do not normally share a residence with the person who has COVID-19, but have spent a night together in the same room. For people who are travelling or holidaying around New Zealand, Household Contacts include people who are sharing non-communal holiday accommodation such as a: hotel room tent campervan temporary holiday home (such as a bach, Airbnb or similar). If you get COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- The following people may be Close Contacts, but are not Household Contacts: People who live in the same group accommodation as the person with COVID-19 (for example, in aged residential care facilities, halls of residences, boarding houses, hostels, backpackers, and transitional housing). Advice for Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- Whether you are fully vaccinated or not, you will need to: isolate for 7 days, starting from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive or their symptoms started — whichever came first, and get a test for COVID-19 on Day 3 , and on Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, follow the guidance for people with COVID-19. If you develop symptoms but test negative, do another rapid antigen test (RAT) 48 hours later. While you are isolating, try to avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. How to get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 Your isolation ends at the same time as the first person in your household who had COVID-19 if: your Day 7 test was negative you have no new or worsening symptoms. You can work out your isolation dates using the tool on the COVID-19 Health Hub: Create your household isolation timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- If more than 1 person in your household tests positive after the first person, you do not need to restart your isolation period. You also do not need to isolate again if you have completed isolation as a household contact in the last 10 days. Only restart your 7-day isolation period if you test positive on Day 3 or Day 7, or develop new or worsening symptoms. You can work out your isolation dates using the tool on the COVID-19 Health Hub: Create your household isolation timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months if someone you live with tests positive. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. If you develop cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection — either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms — they may be related to your last infection. Stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you become increasingly unwell, seek help from your GP. If you develop new cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms and it has been 29 days or more since of your previous infection, and you are at low risk of severe illness, we recommend you take a COVID-19 test. If it is positive you must self-isolate for 7 days. If you have an underlying health condition or have symptoms that are getting worse, seek advice from a health practitioner or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Critical workers may be able to go to work during their isolation period through the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Critical workers need to be vaccinated, have no COVID-19 symptoms and have a negative rapid antigen test (RAT) before going to work each day. When you are not at work, you must isolate. Your employer will let you know if the scheme applies to you. Critical workers --- Section Separator --- There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Find out what financial support is available --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have been exposed to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have details of your Household Contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited any welfare needs you may have. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. How to upload your digital diary | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 11 77 88. It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your approximate arrival and departure time. If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. More information about NZ COVID Tracer alerts | health.govt.nz (external link) You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have been exposed to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have details of your Household Contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited any welfare needs you may have. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. How to upload your digital diary | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 11 77 88. It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your approximate arrival and departure time. --- Section Separator --- If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. More information about NZ COVID Tracer alerts | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Getting tested for COVID-19 is free. Find information and guidance on getting tested, how to test and what happens if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- How to get a free RAT or PCR test, where to find a community testing centre, and how to report RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs), so follow the instructions in your kit. Positive or negative, you should report your result online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. If you test positive or negative, you should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT). You can only do this online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. --- Section Separator --- How to get a free RAT or PCR test, where to find a community testing centre, and how to report RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs), so follow the instructions in your kit. Positive or negative, you should report your result online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. If you test positive or negative, you should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT). You can only do this online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate.
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing How to get a COVID-19 test When you should get a test, what you need to do, and how to report your RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. --- Section Separator --- You can get free rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a range of locations, including the usual collection sites, marae and some pharmacies. Where to get a test If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Check the list of COVID-19 symptoms If you live with a person who has COVID-19 or have spent at least 8 hours with them in the same home, you are a Household Contact. You must get a test on their Day 3 and Day 7 of self-isolation. Advice for Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Two types of COVID-19 tests are available to the general public in New Zealand. Rapid antigen tests (RATs): RATs are the main testing method for people with COVID-19 symptoms or who are Household Contacts. Results take up to 20 minutes. RATs detect all COVID-19 variants. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests: PCRs are used in some situations. Results take 2 to 5 days. PCR tests detect all COVID-19 variants. A health professional can advise you on the right test to take in your situation. COVID-19 test results and their accuracy | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are allowed to leave your home to get a COVID-19 test while you are self-isolating. You can order RATs for yourself or on behalf of someone else. You will need access to a mobile phone to confirm your order. You will get an order number. You can then pick up your RATs from a collection site, or have someone collect it for you. Online: Request free RATs | Ministry of Health (external link) By phone: Call 0800 222 478 , choose option 3 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week) Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | Healthpoint (external link) Your doctor may offer COVID-19 tests. Call them to find out and follow their advice. --- Section Separator --- There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs). While the instructions are similar for each, make sure to check the instructions in your kit. How to use a RAT --- Section Separator --- Whether positive or negative, you should report the results of your RAT. R eporting the result means you can get the help you need as early as possible. How to report your RAT result --- Section Separator --- After your test, you must self-isolate until you receive a negative result. You will get your results in a text message from 2328 . It will take 2 to 5 days. If you test positive, the text message will provide information about self-isolation, support options and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you have COVID-19
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing How to use a RAT --- Section Separator --- Get ready by blowing your nose and then washing and drying your hands. Lay out the contents of your RAT kit — a tube of solution, a stopper, a swab, and the test cassette. Remove the swab (it looks like a long cotton ear bud). Take the soft end and gently glide swab in 1 nostril, going low and slow, about 2 centimetres deep. Twirl the swab over the surface of the nostril around 5 times. Then repeat in your other nostril, going round again slowly 5 times. Get the tube with solution, open it, keep it upright and make sure not to spill it. Place the soft end of the swab into the solution and swirl about 5 times. You want to make sure that the swab is soaked. Pinch the swab as you are removing it — squeeze as much liquid out as you can, to keep it in the tube. Place the stopper firmly on the tube. Give the tube a shake or flick a couple of times so it gets a good mix. Then leave upright for about a minute. With the test cassette ready on a flat surface, take your tube (with the solution of your sample), and turn it upside down. Follow the kit instructions as to how many drops are needed for your test. Squeeze the drops through the stopper onto the well. Wait for 15 minutes — set a timer if that helps. Again, check with the kit instructions as the waiting time may differ. Check for results. If there is no line at the C (C for control), or there are 3 lines, then the test did not work properly this time (it is invalid — this sometimes happens). You will need to do another test. If you see a single line at the C, this shows that the test has worked and you are negative for COVID-19. If you see 2 lines (even if it is a faint line at the T) then this shows you have tested positive for COVID-19. You and your household will need to isolate for at least 7 days. Please report your results (positive or negative): online: My Covid Record (external link) by calling: 0800 222 478 (choose option 3). Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. How to report your RAT result Once you have finished with your rapid antigen test, you should dispose of it. Place the test and any other contaminated material, such as swabs, into the plastic bag that comes with the kit. Seal the bag and place it in your general household rubbish bin. Do not put it in your recycling. You can recycle the cardboard packaging and instructions. This information is available in a printable poster. How to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) [PDF, 730 KB] The Ministry of Health has information on approved RATs and how to use them. Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get ready by blowing your nose and then washing and drying your hands. Lay out the contents of your RAT kit — a tube of solution, a stopper, a swab, and the test cassette. Remove the swab (it looks like a long cotton ear bud). --- Section Separator --- Take the soft end and gently glide swab in 1 nostril, going low and slow, about 2 centimetres deep. Twirl the swab over the surface of the nostril around 5 times. Then repeat in your other nostril, going round again slowly 5 times. --- Section Separator --- Get the tube with solution, open it, keep it upright and make sure not to spill it. Place the soft end of the swab into the solution and swirl about 5 times. You want to make sure that the swab is soaked. --- Section Separator --- Pinch the swab as you are removing it — squeeze as much liquid out as you can, to keep it in the tube. Place the stopper firmly on the tube. --- Section Separator --- Give the tube a shake or flick a couple of times so it gets a good mix. Then leave upright for about a minute. --- Section Separator --- With the test cassette ready on a flat surface, take your tube (with the solution of your sample), and turn it upside down. Follow the kit instructions as to how many drops are needed for your test. Squeeze the drops through the stopper onto the well. --- Section Separator --- Wait for 15 minutes — set a timer if that helps. Again, check with the kit instructions as the waiting time may differ. --- Section Separator --- Check for results. If there is no line at the C (C for control), or there are 3 lines, then the test did not work properly this time (it is invalid — this sometimes happens). You will need to do another test. If you see a single line at the C, this shows that the test has worked and you are negative for COVID-19. If you see 2 lines (even if it is a faint line at the T) then this shows you have tested positive for COVID-19. You and your household will need to isolate for at least 7 days. --- Section Separator --- Please report your results (positive or negative): online: My Covid Record (external link) by calling: 0800 222 478 (choose option 3). Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. How to report your RAT result --- Section Separator --- Once you have finished with your rapid antigen test, you should dispose of it. Place the test and any other contaminated material, such as swabs, into the plastic bag that comes with the kit. Seal the bag and place it in your general household rubbish bin. Do not put it in your recycling. You can recycle the cardboard packaging and instructions. --- Section Separator --- This information is available in a printable poster. How to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) [PDF, 730 KB] The Ministry of Health has information on approved RATs and how to use them. Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to get a COVID-19 test How to use a RAT Report your RAT results What happens if you test positive for COVID-19
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Education Schools, kura, early childhood services and tertiary education can open, but you may have to wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- All playgroups, early learning centres, schools and kura, and tertiary institutions can open. Face masks are strongly recommended indoors for staff and many students at schools and kura. All students aged 12 and up must wear face masks on public and school transport. --- Section Separator --- This includes: certified playgroups all licensed early learning services and kōhanga reo schools and kura tertiary institutions. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials and meetings in person. My Vaccine Pass is not required, but tertiary providers may have their own requirements. Check with your provider. If you do not meet their vaccine requirements, talk to them about alternative learning options. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face masks on-site at education services. You do not need to wear a face mask when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We encourage you to wear a face mask indoors wherever it is practical. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask In Term 3 face masks are strongly recommended for staff and students in Years 4 and up when inside at school (where it will not have a significant impact on teaching and learning). All ākonga (students) aged 12 and over must wear face masks on school transport. Face masks at schools and kura | Te Mahau (external link) --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, staff will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. Only people with COVID-19 and their Household Contacts need to self-isolate. If your child has been near someone with COVID-19 who is not in their household: they do not need to stay home from school or kura, and they do not need to get a test, unless they get symptoms. If your child or someone in their household gets COVID-19, you should tell their school or kura. Everyone in the household must self-isolate. What happens if you test positive Household Contacts Check with your school or kura about how they will manage COVID-19 cases. Public health toolkits from Te Mahau, the Ministry of Education: Early learning connected to confirmed cases | Ministry of Education (external link) Schools connected to confirmed cases | Ministry of Education (external link) --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Managers and staff can find detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Managers and staff can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. Managers, staff and students can find detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. --- Section Separator --- Managers and staff can find detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Managers and staff can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. Managers, staff and students can find detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education.
