Everyone should stay at home. This is the best thing we can all do to stop the spread of COVID-19. This will save lives. Entities and their workers carrying out the following services are considered essential. Find out more. Find out what financial support you could be eligible for. --- Section Separator --- Make a difference by supporting friends, neighbours and whānau, especially the elderly and vulnerable. Everyone should stay at home. This is the best thing we can all do to stop the spread of COVID-19. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. --- Section Separator --- Follow us for more updates Watch daily media conferences with government officials and ministers. 06 Apr 2020 Watch daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 05 Apr 2020 The Director General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, has issued additional guidance on the rules during Alert Level 4. 04 Apr 2020 --- Section Separator --- Symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to a range of other illnesses such as influenza and do not necessarily mean that you have COVID-19. Symptoms include: fever coughing difficulty breathing. Difficulty breathing is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have these symptoms please call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 or you can call your doctor immediately. If you're outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Call your doctor before visiting. New Zealand is now at Alert Level 4. This will save lives. You must stay home. Level 4 measures include: anyone not involved in essential work needs to stay at home educational facilities are now closed businesses are closed, except for essential services like supermarkets, pharmacies and clinics, and lifeline utilities. You must re side at the same place for the duration of the time New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. Where you stayed on the evening of Wednesday 25 March is where you must remain. You must only be in physical contact with those you are living with. It's likely Level 4 measures will stay in place for a number of weeks. Remember, what you do now, will affect all of us. Read more information at Current COVID-13 Alert Level Self-isolation and quarantine are both used to remove people who are ill and those who may be at higher risk of being ill, from other people for a short period of time to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The reasons you may need to be in self-isolation and quarantine may be because you are ill, or because you have specific risk factors that make you more likely to get ill. These include international travel and being a confirmed contact of someone with COVID-19. The guidelines for people under self-isolation and quarantine are stricter than for people at Alert Level 4 - for example, they cannot leave their home to go to the grocery store. Alert Level 4 requires everyone in New Zealand to stay home. However, people can still leave home to access essential services and to exercise. All of these actions together will help protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Staying home, whether it's under Alert Level 4, quarantine or self-isolation, saves lives If you can’t access food or essential items yourself or with the help of whānau, friends, iwi, neighbours or community providers, there is urgent assistance available. If you are not eligible for support from Work and Income and you don’t have a way to access essential supplies yourself, you can contact your local Civil Defence Emergency Management Group (CDEM). However, if you have immediate urgent food needs then you should call your local CDEM Group directly. The service operates seven days a week from 7am to 7pm. If you find yourself in this situation, please phone your local CDEM Group. The number for your local CDEM Group is on the National Emergency Management Agency website Supermarkets will be closed as usual on Good Friday (10 April), but will be open on Easter Sunday (12 April). This is to ensure people do not feel the need to panic buy. The closure on Good Friday will give staff an opportunity to have a well-deserved rest and give supermarkets the chance to restock their shelves. All supermarket staff will be able to say no to working on Easter Sunday. Yes, the Government has announced that whiteware and computer equipment can be sold at Level 4. This recognises the need for people to safely isolate, stay connected to one another and work or study from home. In order to protect public safety, there are rules around how these things can be sold. For example, businesses can only take orders for essential non-food goods. Businesses must only take orders online or by phone, and keep storefronts shut. Goods must be delivered to people’s homes without making physical contact with the buyer. It might take some time for businesses to set up their systems to comply with these rules. More information is available on the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment website If you’re healthy and under 70, you should go to the supermarket instead of shopping online. This will leave home delivery slots free for the people who need them most. Shops are doing their best to limit the number of shoppers – helping you keep 2 metres away from others. Here are some simple tips to follow when you go to the supermarket: Wash your hands before and after you shop. Come prepared with a list so you can get in and out as quickly as possible. If at all possible only send one person from your household to do the whole shop. You may need to take young children with you if there is no carer available. Keep 2 metres away from others, including staff – they need to keep safe too! Only touch what you want to buy. Be kind to essential workers, and others you’re sharing the shop with. More simple tips for when you go to the supermarket High prices at supermarkets have been a concern for many New Zealanders. We want to ensure pricing remains fair during these times. You can now raise concerns about high prices at supermarkets. If you're concerned about prices at your local supermarket, please report these, along with a copy of your receipt by email to pricewatch@mbie.govt.nz . New Zealand is currently at Alert Level 4. This may impact the way you receive medical care if you are pregnant or have recently given birth. During your pregnancy, face-to-face check-ups may be reduced. Your midwife will still make contact with you over the phone or by video call. When you give birth, maternity facilities will have restrictions on the number of visitors and support people you can have with you. If you have been diagnosed with COVID-19, inform your midwife or midwifery practice. Information for pregnant women and those who have recently given birth You might be tempted to leave the house this weekend, particularly if the weather is nice. Remember, staying home is the best thing you can do to stop the spread of COVID-19. But you can leave the house to buy groceries or to get some fresh air in your neighbourhood. If you do leave the house this weekend, here are some do’s and don’ts to remember: Keep a 2 metre distance from other people at all times. Stay local if you go out for exercise and stay close to home. Keep it solitary when going out, just by yourself or with the people you live with. If you're exercising in your neighbourhood and it's too busy, go home. Go out later. Help our emergency services by only doing safe activities, such as going for a walk. Don’t go swimming, surfing, hunting or tramping. Don’t touch surfaces others may have touched and avoid park benches or playgrounds. Don’t travel far from home, especially not to baches or second homes. Only shop for essential supplies. Wash your hands regularly. Most of all during this time, we encourage you to continue to be kind to one another. Stay in touch with your older relatives and vulnerable people, talk to your friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone and see if they need your support. Acts of kindness and maintaining these connections is essential while we work to stop the spread of COVID-19. Please stay at home as much as you can. Any unnecessary travel could spread COVID-19. If you are over 70, or are immunosuppressed, you should not be leaving the house at all. Some people will need to go outside occasionally. For example to take a short walk for exercise or mental wellbeing, or to visit local essential services like the doctor, pharmacy or supermarket. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. If you live in an area where a walk in the neighbourhood isn’t practical, you can drive a short distance to reach an area, like a beach, where you can go for a quick walk. If the beach is busy, and you can’t stay 2 metres away from other people, go home. Do not stay at the beach and sunbathe and please do not swim. If you do leave your house, you must always keep a 2 metre distance from other people who are not part of your isolation group. If an area is too crowded to keep to a 2 metre space between you and others, go home. Don’t stop and chat, contact people over the phone or social media instead. If you have concerns about a gathering of people, a non-essential shop or service that is open, anyone who is not self-isolating as required, or an event that breaches the criteria, you can report it to police online. Do not call 105. Reports will be prioritised based on risk. Report a breach online The Government is acting to support people in New Zealand through these changes with a $16.1 billion package that includes: a wage subsidy scheme. Previous cap of $150,000 per business removed leave and self-isolation support business cash flow and tax measures mortgage repayment holiday scheme for 6 months — via retail banks business finance guarantee scheme. Your usual financial support, such as benefits, will continue. More about COVID-19 support on the Work and Income website Essential services include food, medicine, healthcare, energy, fuel, waste-removal, internet and financial support. All of these things will continue to be available at all Alert Levels. More information about essential businesses If over the following days and weeks you feel you are not coping, it’s important to seek help and professional support. Your family doctor is a good starting point. For support with grief, anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can also call or text the 'Need to talk?' service on 1737 . This service is free, available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and gives you the chance to talk it through with a trained counsellor. As an essential worker you are playing a vital role in keeping New Zealand running during Alert Level 4. You may also be wondering if you need to be using Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) in order to keep yourself safe during this time. The Ministry of Health has put together some tips for while you’re at work and at home. These are the most effective measures to protect you and those you live with. Read about PPE for essential workers The most important thing for you to know is that basic hygiene measures are the best defence against COVID-19. If you are unwell, you must not go to work, and must not return to work unless you are symptom free for 48 hours. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor if you feel unwell. Service stations, dairies and convenience stores can operate but must have a one-in-one-out rule. They can not sell food prepared on the premises. They can sell any pre-packaged food (eg sandwiches, muffins or pies) that has been prepared off-site by their supplier, and can heat that food on-site if required. They can also sell food that has been prepared off-site (eg pies, sausage rolls) that has been delivered in boxes and then heated on-site and put in paper bags for the customer, with appropriate precautions such as not letting customers bag food themselves. They must not serve any drinks that need to be prepared on-site, eg hot coffee or milkshakes. Employees should wash their hands whenever possible before handling the food items to avoid cross-contamination from the surfaces.
Home Government actions
Home Government actions COVID-19 Alert System --- Section Separator --- New Zealand is currently at Level 4. Find out what our current level means for you The alert system means people can see and plan for the kinds of restrictions we may be required to put in place. This includes increasing or decreasing limits on human contact, travel and business operations. Download a table of the COVID-19 Alert Level [PDF, 50 KB] The alert levels tell us all what public health and social measures need to be taken. The measures may be updated on the basis of: 1). new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 and 2). information about the effectiveness of intervention measures in New Zealand and elsewhere. The alert levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Different parts of the country may be at different alert levels. We can also move up and down alert levels. In general, the alert levels are cumulative, eg Level 1 is a base-level response. Always prepare for the next level. At all levels, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport, and other essential services, operations and staff, are expected to remain up and running. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. The public will notice an increased Police presence with a focus on prevention, through education and encouragement. Level 4 restrictions will only be enforced if required. Likely that disease is not contained. Sustained and intensive transmission Widespread outbreaks. These can all be applied locally or nationally : people instructed to stay at home educational facilities closed businesses closed except for essential services (eg supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics) and lifeline utilities rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities travel severely limited major reprioritisation of healthcare services. Heightened risk that disease is not contained. Community transmission occurring OR Multiple clusters break out. These can all be applied locally or nationally : travel in areas with clusters or community transmission limited affected educational facilities closed mass gatherings cancelled public venues closed (eg libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, amusement parks) alternative ways of working required and some non-essential businesses should close non face-to-face primary care consultations non acute (elective) services and procedures in hospitals deferred and healthcare staff reprioritised. Disease is contained, but risks of community transmission growing. High risk of importing COVID-19 OR Increase in imported cases OR Increase in household transmission OR Single or isolated cluster outbreak. These can all be applied locally or nationally : entry border measures maximised further restrictions on mass gatherings physical distancing on public transport (eg leave the seat next to you empty if you can) limit non-essential travel around New Zealand employers start alternative ways of working if possible (eg remote working, shift-based working, physical distancing within the workplace, staggering meal breaks, flexible leave arrangements) business continuity plans activated high-risk people advised to remain at home (eg those over 70 or those with other existing medical conditions). Disease is contained. Heightened risk of importing COVID-19 OR Sporadic imported cases OR Isolated household transmission associated with imported cases. These can all be applied locally or nationally : border entry measures to minimise risk of importing COVID-19 cases applied contact tracing stringent self-isolation and quarantine intensive testing for COVID-19 physical distancing encouraged mass gatherings over 500 cancelled stay home if you’re sick, report flu-like symptoms wash and dry hands, cough into elbow, don’t touch your face. --- Section Separator --- Current COVID-19 Alert Level COVID-19 Alert System Financial support Travel Gatherings State of national emergency
Home Government actions Current COVID-19 Alert Level --- Section Separator --- We need your support to protect New Zealand and eradicate COVID-19. Enforcement measures may be used to ensure everyone acts together, now. Everyone must now stay home, except those providing essential services. Only make physical contact with those who you live with. Don’t worry, during this time, you will be able to access all the essentials you need, including medicine, food and other home supplies. Advice for staying at home and things to do to make it easier Guidance on Alert Level 4 rules from Ministry of Health and New Zealand Police (external link) Supermarkets, dairies, pharmacies and food banks will remain open. When shopping, as much as possible send in only 1 family member at a time. Practise 2-metre physical distancing and hygiene rules while shopping. Dairies and food banks will operate a strict ‘one-in, one-out’ policy. They won’t be allowed to sell or provide food prepared on the premises. Primary industries, including food and beverage production and processing, will still operate. Freight and courier drivers will continue to transport and deliver food. Grocery food deliveries – such as My Food Bag and Hello Fresh – will continue, as long as the food is not pre-cooked. Takeaway services will be closed. Liquor stores will close, unless within a Licensing Trust Area and will operate with a strict ‘one-in, one-out’ policy. Wine and beer will continue to be sold at supermarkets. Guidance on how to shop safely Information about accessing food banks Places where the public congregate must close. All bars, restaurants, cafes, gyms, cinemas, pools, museums, libraries, playgrounds and any other place where the public congregate must close their face-to-face function. Playgrounds are an area where people congregate and so are off-limits. People can exercise outdoors but must maintain a 2-metre distance from others. People are expected to stay local when leaving the home. Rubbish collection will continue. Check your local authority website for recycling. NZ Post will deliver mail and courier drivers will continue to make deliveries. Self-service laundries can stay open, as long as 2-metre physical distancing is enforced. Service stations will remain open and will be supplied. Public transport, regional air travel and ferries are mostly restricted to those involved in essential services and freight. Some public transport will be available for essential trips, such as to the supermarket or doctor, but options will be limited. Building and construction workers will carry on in cases where they’re needed to maintain human health or safety. You can go for a walk, run or bike ride. Exercise is good for people’s mental health. If you do, it must be solitary, or with those you live with. Keep a 2-metre distance. Don't do activities that may require search and rescue services. For example, don’t go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping. If you are unwell, do NOT go outside. Guidance for leaving your house Advice for exercising safely, including types of exercise you should stick to and where you can exercise Staying at home is meant to reduce the transmission of the virus. For this to work, you are asked to only have physical contact with the people you live with. If you live alone, you may arrange with another person living alone or a household to be part of your self-isolating group, or bubble. This can include at most 2 households, and they must be in the same town/city. If you want to talk to a friend, call or video chat with them. If you want to talk to a neighbour, do it over the fence. Children can travel between the homes of separated parents so as long as they live in the same town/city. Feel free to drop off groceries to others, but drop the groceries a the door. Always keep a 2-metre distance. If you’re not sure what assistance may be available or don’t know who to contact for help, call the free government helpline on 0800 779 997 (8am to 10pm, 7 days a week). Only businesses that are essential may remain open during the Level 4 Alert period. If a business isn’t sure if it provides services or products which qualify as essential, it should close. If you are a business or worker in a non-essential business, you may still work – as long as this is from home. If you cannot work remotely, you must stay home. Find out more about essential businesses The Government is acting to support all people in New Zealand through these changes. This includes: a wage subsidy scheme leave and self-isolation support business cash flow and tax measures. Your usual financial support, such as benefits, will continue. COVID-19 support, including how to apply, on the Work and Income website (external link) More information about the types of financial support available All indoor and outdoor events cannot proceed. This does not include workplaces of people undertaking essential businesses. These requirements apply to family and social gatherings such as birthdays, funerals, tangi or weddings. These gatherings cannot go ahead. We are asking you only spend time with those who you are in self-isolation with, and keep your distance from all others at all times. Funeral directors provide essential services and will continue working during Level 4. However, gathering together for funerals and tangi is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. Only people from the same self-isolation household group as the deceased person can go to the funeral home and cemetery with the deceased, and only if these are in the same region. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to keep your physical distance. This may be a challenging time for you and your family. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. For support, you can call or text 1737 – free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week – to talk with a trained counsellor. Find out more about funerals and tangi All schools and early childhood education centres are closed. Schools will be providing information directly to all parents about what this means for them. The school term break was brought forward to start on Monday 30 March. Schools are establishing ways to teach online and remotely. Where possible, essential workers with children aged 0 to 14 need to make their own arrangements for childcare. We know this will not be possible for everyone. Alternative arrangements are in place to allow essential workers to access childcare and continue to work. Your employer will tell you if you qualify as an essential worker for these purposes. Information about schools and early childhood, and information for parents and caregivers about arranging childcare Health and medical facilities are essential services and will remain open while we are at Alert Level 4. You can still get medical help if you need it. This includes healthcare services, such as Healthline, GPs, cancer services, disability and aged support services. However, if you need to see a doctor or other medical professional you MUST phone first. Most consultations will happen over the phone or by videoconference to stop any risk of COVID-19 spreading by person-to-person contact. If a face-to-face meeting is required, your doctor or other medical professional will organise this with you. Please only call Healthline if you or someone you know feels unwell or you need medical advice, rather than general questions about COVID-19. It's important Healthline is able to answer calls from those who need medical advice. The more people who call asking for general information, the fewer people who need medical advice can get through. If you cannot get through and are severely unwell, for example having trouble breathing, contact emergency services (call 111 ). Further advice on how to access healthcare You may not fly within New Zealand. You may use public transport or a private vehicle to get food or medicine. Information about domestic travel exemption for foreign nationals connecting to international flights Information about public transport Advice about using taxi and ride-sharing services Using private vehicles for transport is allowed. Where possible, practise physical distancing. Personal walks and other active travel like biking is fine, provided you follow the 2-metre physical distancing requirement at all times. Advice for using private vehicles How to exercise safely Visitors and tourists can still use international air services to travel home but commercial flights have been impacted. Do not go to the airport unless you have a ticket. If you do not have ticket, contact a travel agent or airline directly. If you can't get a ticket, please contact your country's embassy. Information about travel restrictions and visa extensions from Immigration New Zealand (external link) Information about international travel, including latest border restrictions and advice about travelling overseas Guidance for recent arrivals in New Zealand While in Alert Level 4, air travel will be used only to transport people undertaking essential services and to transport freight. Information about domestic travel exemption for foreign nationals connecting to international flights At-risk or vulnerable people in particular should stay at home, and ask others to pick up supplies for them. You just need to ask them to leave supplies at the door, rather than come in. You are at high risk if you are over 70, have a compromised immune system or have underlying health conditions. People with underlying medical conditions include a compromised immune system, liver disease, cancer, kidney disease, heart disease and diabetes mellitus, pregnant people or those on immunosuppressant medications. You need to take more precautions to protect yourself against all infections, including COVID-19. More information for vulnerable and at-risk groups Download a poster asking people not to enter your building Find out more about COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Current COVID-19 Alert Level Essential businesses Essential businesses COVID-19 Alert System Financial support Travel Gatherings State of national emergency
Home Government actions Current COVID-19 Alert Level Essential businesses --- Section Separator --- Essential businesses, and those that support them, will continue to provide the necessities of life for everyone in New Zealand during Alert Level 4. This means food, medicine, healthcare, energy, fuel, waste-removal, internet and financial support will continue to be available. Alert Level 4 means New Zealanders not working in essential services must stay at home and stop all physical interactions with others outside of your household. A full list of what qualifies as an essential business is on the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) website. MBIE list of essential businesses (external link) If you have any queries about what an essential service is and if it applies to your business sector, you can call 0800 22 66 57 or email essential@mbie.govt.nz for advice regarding your specific business. For questions related to primary industries, including food and beverage production and processing, email info@mpi.govt.nz or call 0800 00 83 33 . If you’re unsure whether your business provides essential services, you should close. We need as many businesses as possible to close to slow the spread of the virus. If your business is considered essential, you must operate in a way that minimises the risk of COVID-19 transmission. Businesses should: minimise, or eliminate if possible, physical interactions among staff and with and between customers ensure appropriate health, hygiene and safety measures are in place restrict activity to only what is essential during the Alert Level 4 period. These practices may include: working from home as far as possible limiting, or eliminating if possible, physical interaction between staff, eg through physical distancing, split shifts, staggered meal breaks and flexible working arrangements limiting, or eliminating if possible, physical interaction with and between customers, eg through online or phone orders, contactless delivery or managed entry (while also avoiding crowding outside), and physical distancing both inside and outside the premises hygiene basics of handwashing and sanitisers frequent cleaning of premises, especially counters and EFTPOS terminals, and other high-touch surfaces protective equipment for staff as appropriate. If you are unsure if you can operate in a manner that minimises the risk of transmission of COVID-19, you should close while you put in place appropriate measures. Employment guidance for businesses and workers (external link) Health and safety guidance work essential workplaces (external link) Non-essential businesses must now close their premises. All bars, restaurants, cafes, gyms, cinemas, pools, museums, libraries, playgrounds and any other place where the public congregate must close their face-to-face functions. If you are a business or worker in a non-essential business, you may still work – as long as this is from home. If you cannot work remotely, you must stay home. We need your support to protect New Zealand and slow the spread of COVID-19. Enforcement measures may be used to ensure everyone acts together, now. Businesses are able to sell essential non-food consumer products, provided they do so in a way that protects the public and minimises the risk of COVID-19 spreading. The conditions that businesses must comply with and details on how to register your business (external link) --- Section Separator --- Current COVID-19 Alert Level Essential businesses Essential businesses COVID-19 Alert System Financial support Travel Gatherings State of national emergency
Home Government actions Financial support --- Section Separator --- In response to COVID-19, the Government is acting to support people and the economy with a $12.1 billion support package. If you are in financial hardship, you should call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . The wage subsidy is to help keep your businesses going if they face laying off staff or reducing their hours because of COVID-19. If you’re an employer, contractor, sole trader or are self-employed you may qualify. The subsidy is a lump sum payment for the employer to pass on to employees and covers 12 weeks per employee. More information about the wage subsidy, including how to apply, on Work and Income (external link) 24 March 2020: the Government announced the removal of the $150,000 cap (external link) 27 March: Government modified scheme to better support workers not able to work during Level 4 (external link) From 3pm on 27 March 2020, the COVID-19 Leave Payment is no longer available for employers. Applications already submitted will continue to be processed and paid. The Government has announced an essential workers leave scheme. It will subsidise eligible businesses, and allow them to pay those workers who need to take leave due to the COVID-19 Public Health guidance. The scheme offers the same rates as the Wage Subsidy Scheme of $585.80 per week full-time workers and $350.00 per week for part-time workers. Essential Workers Leave Payment Scheme If you’ve lost your job or are a business faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are being made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) There is also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) Support is available to ensure renters stay in their rental properties with a 6-month freeze on residential rent increases and increased protection from having tenancies terminated. It’s important tenants do not face the prospect of homelessness during this challenging time. This will also enable families and individuals to self-isolate, to stay home and maintain physical distancing, and support the public health of all people in New Zealand. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Development has more information (external link) New Zealand’s retail banks are offering to defer repayments for all residential mortgages for up to 6 months for customers financially affected by COVID-19. Mortgage repayment deferrals mean that affected customers who apply to their bank will not make principal and interest payments on their loans for up to 6 months. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to provide assistance to affected customers. Key details of this scheme: It’s important to know that interest on these loans will still accrue, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess the suitability for each customer who is asking for a deferral. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. There is help available for urgent costs like: food accommodation costs (rent, mortgage, board, emergency housing) repairs or replacing appliances emergency dental treatment emergency medical treatment water tank refill. Financial support, eligibility criteria, and how to apply (external link) Work and Income call centres are experiencing very high demand at the moment, so we recommend you check the website first.  If you don’t have access to the internet you can call us on 0800 559 009 . People worried about their ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 should contact their bank or finance company as soon as they can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. A range of options are available to help. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with offers tips, guides and tools support online or you can email them at office@sorted.org.nz . Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) Follow Sorted on Facebook (external link) View helpful videos on the Sorted YouTube channel (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz . Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) The Government has developed a plan to support Māori communities and businesses in the face of COVID-19. This includes a whole of government approach to providing health, social and economic support tailored to meet the specific needs of Māori. This includes: a Whānau Māori Community and Mārae package reprioritising $10 million from the Māori Development vote to support community outreach Māori Health and Whānau Ora response with $30 million targeted directly to Māori Health services and an extra $15 million to Whānau Ora commissioning agencies supporting Māori Businesses and engaging with Māori with $1 million of funding to enable a needs assessment for Māori businesses, and $470,000 to Te Arawhiti to engage and work with iwi on their COVID-19 pandemic response plans. Read the media release (beehive.govt.nz) (external link) The Government has launched a Business Finance Guarantee Scheme for small and medium-sized businesses, to protect jobs and support the economy. The Crown in partnership with participating approved banks will support targeted new loans (including increases to existing limits) to eligible businesses, as a response to difficulties caused by COVID-19. Under the scheme, businesses with annual revenue between $250,000 and $80 million can apply to their banks for loans up to $500,000, for up to 3 years. The scheme will offer a total of $6.25 billion in loans to New Zealand businesses. The Government is guaranteeing 80% of the risk, while the banks are covering the remaining 20%. A normal lending process will be followed by the banks, which will make the lending decisions. Further details can be found on the banks’ websites. Announcement of the opening of the scheme (external link) Business.govt.nz information about the Business Finance Guarantee Scheme (external link) Business cash flow and tax measures include: increasing the provisional tax threshold from $2,500 to $5,000 from 2020/2021 increasing the small asset depreciation threshold from $500 to $1,000 — and to $5,000 for the 2020/21 tax year allowing depreciation on commercial and industrial buildings from 2020/2021 removing the hours test from the In-Work Tax Credit (IWTC) from 1 July 2020. Read more information about COVID-19 tax relief measures at ird.govt.nz (external link) Other elements of the $12.1 billion package include income support and further investment in the health response. Read about the wider $12.1 billion package at treasury.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Current COVID-19 Alert Level COVID-19 Alert System Financial support Travel Gatherings State of national emergency
Home Government actions Gatherings --- Section Separator --- All indoor and outdoor events cannot proceed. This does not include workplaces of people undertaking essential businesses. These requirements apply to family and social gatherings such as birthdays, funerals, tangi or weddings. These gatherings can not go ahead. We are asking you only spend time with those who you are in self-isolation with, and keep your distance from all others at all times. In the first instance, please contact the event organiser. They will likely need some time to determine their process and obligations for any refunds, payment to suppliers etc. Please be patient as they work through the process to meet any obligations they may have. If you have read through these self-isolation guidelines and believe you have observed behaviour that is not appropriate and you are certain the individual/s concerned should be self-isolating please submit an online report. Police online reporting form (external link) (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Current COVID-19 Alert Level COVID-19 Alert System Financial support Travel Gatherings State of national emergency
Home Government actions State of national emergency --- Section Separator --- A state of national emergency was declared at 12.21pm on 25 March 2020 at due to COVID-19. The state was renewed at 12.21pm on 1 April 2020 and will expire at 12.21pm on 8 April 2020 unless renewed prior to that time. The state of national emergency must be renewed every 7 days, and the first renewal occurred on 31 March. It covers all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island, and other offshore islands. This declaration has been made because of the unprecedented nature of this global pandemic, and to ensure the Government has all the powers it needs to slow the spread of COVID-19 and reduce its impact. The state of national emergency declaration allows the Director of Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) to direct and coordinate personnel, material and other resources and provides access to powers that would not normally be available, but will be needed to manage the ongoing response. See Key documents and legislation for Notices on the state of national emergency The state of national emergency has no impact on the COVID-19 Alert Level. COVID-19 Alert Level 4 came into force at 11.59pm Wednesday 25 March. Emergency powers under the CDEM Act 2002 enable the Director of Civil Defence Emergency (and CDEM Group Controllers) to, among other things: close or restrict access to roads or public places remove or secure dangerous structures and materials provide rescue, first aid, food, shelter etc. conserve essential supplies and regulate traffic dispose of dead persons and animals enter onto premises, eg to rescue people or save lives evacuate premises/places remove vehicles, vessels etc. requisition equipment, materials and assistance. CDEM Act powers can be used where necessary to slow the spread of COVID-19, reduce its impact and manage the consequences, for example: powers of requisition to manage wider consequences, eg providing for the conservation and supply of fuel and other essential supplies closing roads stopping people doing activities that may contribute to the emergency excluding people from places prohibiting or regulating traffic. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it is declared unless it is terminated or extended. It is almost certain that we will need to extend the declaration beyond 7 days. At this stage it is too early to say when the state of national emergency will end. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of CDEM. As part of the response to COVID-19, CDEM Director Sarah Stuart-Black will also hold the powers of National Controller. The Director of CDEM is part of the all-of-government response leadership team. This declaration of a state of national emergency simply ensures that we have all of the legislative means possible, all the enforcement powers, all the tools we need, at our disposal to combat the spread of COVID-19. The declaration of a state of national emergency is one part of our response to COVID-19. It sits alongside the use of powers under the Health Act, the Immigration Act, the Public Finance Act and others, all of which are designed to ensure our health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport, and other essential services, operations and staff, can remain up and running. COVID-19 meets the definition of emergency because: COVID-19 has been declared a pandemic by the World Health Organisation it poses a significant risk to the health and safety of members of the public a significant and co-ordinated response is required under the CDEM Act (eg co-ordination of welfare agencies, border agencies, emergency services and lifeline utilities at the national and regional level). Under the CDEM Act, this declaration means the Director of CDEM may control the exercise and performance of functions, duties, and powers of CDEM Groups and Group controllers. There are no other differences between the powers under a state of local emergency and a state of national emergency. This is the second time in New Zealand history that a state of national emergency has been declared. A state of national emergency for Christchurch City was declared on 23 February 2011 in response to the February 22 Christchurch earthquake. The state of national emergency was declared for Christchurch City as resources from across the country were required in order to assist response and early recovery efforts and lasted from 23 February 2011 until 30 March 2011 (66 days). The state of national emergency for COVID-19 is the first time such a declaration has been made for the whole of New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Current COVID-19 Alert Level COVID-19 Alert System Financial support Travel Gatherings State of national emergency
Home Government actions Travel --- Section Separator --- We are asking everyone to limit your movement around the country to help us help us track and slow any spread of COVID-19. This means cutting non-essential domestic travel. On public transport, including domestic flights, keep as much space between you and others as possible. Try to stay at least 2 metres away from other passengers, and leave the seat next to you empty if you can. Where possible, sit in a window seat in a row by yourself. Cough or sneeze into your elbow. Wash and dry your hands before and after your journey. Find more advice for travellers As an essential business, Air New Zealand will continue to operate while we are on Alert Level 4. For all travel, you will need to check that you qualify to travel under the essential businesses list before you book your ticket or head to the airport. MBIE list of essential businesses (external link) We’re now at Alert Level 4. This means we have restrictions in place for domestic flights. Travel on these services is for essential business and personnel only. Please do not to go the airport or ferry terminal, or try to purchase a ticket, if your travel does not qualify as essential personnel on essential business. Foreign nationals in New Zealand can now take domestic flights in order to connect with commercial, or chartered, international flights to their home country. Criteria for taking a domestic flight to connect with an international flight Public transport such and buses and trains are available for people who do not have other options for essential travel, including going to the supermarket and pharmacy. Further advice on public transport is available on the COVID-19 website Remember, stay at home. This is the best thing we can all do to stop the spread of COVID-19. This will save lives. The New Zealand Government has made further travel restrictions to slow the spread of the COVID-19 virus. New Zealand's borders are being closed to almost all travellers from 23:59 on Thursday 19 March 2020 . All affected travellers must have checked in for their flight to New Zealand by this time. Exceptions can be made on a case-by-case basis by Immigration New Zealand for: humanitarian reasons health and other essential workers citizens of Samoa and Tonga for essential travel to New Zealand the holder of a visitor visa who is the partner or dependent of a temporary work or student visa holder, and who normally lives in New Zealand and is currently in New Zealand. Immigration New Zealand COVID-19 information (external link) No other foreign traveller can now enter New Zealand. For New Zealand citizens and residents entering New Zealand: It is already a requirement for all people entering New Zealand to self-isolate for 14 days from arrival; however, every passenger entering New Zealand will now be screened on arrival, to stop the spread of COVID-19 There will be people available as soon as you disembark the plane or ship to discuss your self-isolation and transport arrangements to your place of self-isolation, and to answer any questions and provide assistance You will not be allowed onto any connecting domestic flight. However, airport staff can supply guidance on the best course of action If you have any symptoms on arrival, you will be tested and placed in an approved facility/accommodation for 14 days If you don’t have any symptoms on arrival, you will still need to self-isolate, and will need to outline your plan for self-isolation and your transport arrangements to that place. You can expect to be checked-on by Police within 72 hours to ensure you are in self-isolation If you have arrived in New Zealand by sea travel from any country, the 14 days starts from your date of departure from your last international port If you have a suitable plan for self-isolation, but you do not have transport arranged, don’t worry – officials will arrange transport within the local area. If transport is not possible, approved local accommodation will be supplied for your self-isolation, for 14 days. We’ll keep in touch. Further information about what will happen after this time will be provided, including what to do if you had planned any transport through domestic flights. The Ministry of Health website has information for travellers arriving in New Zealand (external link) We are working to start domestic flights to take healthy arrivals with a self-isolation plan to some regional destinations. These flights will begin on 31 March but will be strictly for those who are currently in government-managed isolation in hotels in Auckland. Travel will be planned with those individuals directly to their end destination based on the information that they have provided. The All of Government Response is paying for the cost of the provided accommodation facilities for those requiring managed self-isolation or quarantine. If you have any COVID-19 related concerns call Healthline ( 0800 358 5453 ) for advice before you travel. To limit the spread of any virus, people who are unwell should stay at home. If you’re unwell and must travel, you must use private transport. If that’s not possible, call Healthline for guidance first. If you do not have COVID-19 related concerns you can use taxis and ride-sharing services, but only for essential purposes. Essential and emergency workers can continue to use taxis and ride-sharing services whilst carrying out essential services, such as getting to and from work. Everyone else can only use taxis and ride-sharing services for essential purposes. These include getting to the supermarket, pharmacy or vet, and to access routine medical services (not related to COVID-19) or for facilitating shared custody. In addition to general hygiene guidance, there are some specific requirements while travelling in a taxi or ride-share. Please also follow any requests from the driver. Personal hygiene : Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit a vehicle. When you get home you should also wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with water and soap and dry them thoroughly. Physical distancing : Physical distancing between the driver and passengers is important, even in smaller vehicles. Passengers must sit in the rear passenger seats only – you must not sit in the front passenger seat next to the driver. Sit as far as possible from the driver. If you are the sole passenger, sit in the rear left-hand side passenger seat, diagonally opposite the driver. The maximum number of passengers is the number of passenger seats in the back of the vehicle (in most cars there are typically 3 rear passenger seats). Who you can travel with : Apart from the driver, you must only travel in the same vehicle as people from the same isolation group (household unit or ‘bubble’). Contact tracing : Please follow any requests for providing contact tracing information (if not already provided, for example electronically through an app or booking system). The Ministry of Transport has more details about transport restrictions on its website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Current COVID-19 Alert Level COVID-19 Alert System Financial support Travel Gatherings State of national emergency
Home Help and advice
Home Help and advice For businesses and employees
Home Help and advice For businesses and employees Employees --- Section Separator --- Employers and employees need to work together to slow the spread of COVID-19, protect New Zealand and keep each other safe. This means that normal obligations to keep in regular contact and to act in good faith are more important than ever. This is how employers and employees can be kind to one another. Regular employment law applies to all employment relationships – regardless of the circumstances that we find ourselves in. This includes anything that has been agreed to in an employment agreement. Employment guidance is available for COVID-19 -related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, and modifying and terminating employment agreements, Guidance for employers and employees (external link) Essential businesses, and those that support them, will continue to provide the necessities of life for everyone in New Zealand. This means food, medicine, healthcare, energy, fuel, waste-removal, internet and financial support will continue to be available. Find out more about essential businesses The Wage Subsidy Scheme: supports employers adversely affected by COVID-19, so that they can continue to pay their employees, and supports workers to ensure they continue to receive an income, even if they are unable to work. New Zealand employers who have been adversely affected by COVID-19 are eligible to apply. This includes: registered charities NGOs the self-employed and sole traders contractors registered charities incorporated societies, and post-settlement governance entities. It is also available to employers who recently let employees go because of COVID-19, provided they re-hire those employees. To qualify: the business is registered and operating in New Zealand employees are legally working in New Zealand the business has experienced a minimum 30% decline in actual or predicted revenue over the period of a month, when compared with the same month last year, and that decline is related to COVID-19. There are special rules for new businesses and high-growth firms the business has taken active steps to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 the business must retain covered employees in employment for the period of the subsidy. The COVID-19 Wage Subsidy will be paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 for people working 20 hours or more per week $350.00 for people working less than 20 hours per week. Employers must make best endeavours to pay employees 80% of their normal income. Where that is not possible – in particular where a business has no activity whatsoever due to the shutdown and workers are not working any hours – employers must pass on at least the whole value of the wage subsidy to each affected worker. If a person’s income is normally less than the subsidy, they can be paid that normal salary. The subsidy is paid as a lump sum to the employer to pass on to employees and covers 12 weeks per employee. The wage subsidy is a Government payment to help employers pay wages. It does not change any other employment law obligations, meaning employees must be paid appropriately under their employment agreements for the hours they work during the lockdown. Read more information, including how to apply, on Work and Income (external link) 24 March 2020: the Government announced the removal of the $150,000 cap (external link) 27 March 2020: Government modified scheme to better support workers not able to work during Level 4 (external link) From 3pm on 27 March 2020, the COVID-19 Leave Payment is no longer available for employers. Applications already submitted will continue to be processed and paid. The Government has announced an Essential Workers COVID-19 Leave Payment Scheme. It will subsidise eligible businesses, and allow them to pay those workers who need to take leave due to the COVID-19 Public Health guidance. The scheme offers the same rates as the Wage Subsidy Scheme of $585.80 per week full-time and $350.00 per week for part-time workers. Details will be available on the Work and Income website (external link) Information about financial assistance for workers and businesses Information about workplace responses to COVID-19 at the employment.govt.nz website (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone For businesses and employees Employers Employees For essential workers Physical or close contact jobs Sole traders Employers Employees For essential workers Physical or close contact jobs Sole traders For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For businesses and employees Employers --- Section Separator --- Essential businesses, and those that support them, will continue to provide the necessities of life for everyone in New Zealand. This means food, medicine, healthcare, energy, fuel, waste-removal, internet and financial support will continue to be available. What are essential businesses? (external link) These businesses will continue working but will put in place alternative ways of working to keep employees safe, including shift-based working, staggered meal breaks, flexible leave arrangements and physical distancing. They must have health measures and contact tracing in place. Physical distancing means staff and the public stay 2 metres apart, and hand hygiene and cleaning must be maintained. Keeping full details of customers or guests, and keeping people away if they are sick is required. If you have any queries about what an essential service is and if it applies to your business sector, you can get in touch with general enquiries at 0800 22 66 57 or email essential@mbie.govt.nz for advice regarding your specific business. We will publish more specific information for each sector shortly. If you provide an essential service within the primary industries, including critical support goods and services, you are required to register with the Ministry for Primary Industries and answer 11 questions about how you intend to stop any spread of COVID-19. Businesses with 5 or fewer people (including the owner) working at each business site that can achieve physical distancing are exempt. Primary sector businesses can contact MPI for more information by calling 0800 00 83 33 or emailing info@mpi.govt.nz . Visit MPI Register for Safe Practice for more information(external link) (external link) Non-essential businesses must now close, unless they able to operate from home. All bars, restaurants, cafes including takeaway services, gyms, cinemas, pools, museums, libraries, playgrounds and any other place where the public congregate must close their face-to-face function. We need your support to protect New Zealand and eradicate COVID-19. Enforcement measures may be used to ensure everyone acts together, now. Employers and employees need to work together to slow the spread of COVID-19, protect New Zealand and keep each other safe. This means that normal obligations to keep in regular contact and to act in good faith are more important than ever. This is how employers and employees can be kind to one another. Regular employment law applies to all employment relationships – regardless of the circumstances that we find ourselves in. This includes anything that has been agreed to in an employment agreement. Employment guidance is available for COVID-19-related matters, including pay and leave entitlements, the minimum wage, and modifying and terminating employment agreements, Guidance for employers and employees(external link) (external link) The Employer Wage Subsidy Scheme: supports employers adversely affected by COVID-19, so that you can continue to pay your employees, and supports workers to ensure they continue to receive an income, even if they are unable to work. New Zealand employers whose businesses have been affected by COVID-19 are eligible to apply. This includes: registered charities NGOs the self-employed and sole traders contractors registered charities incorporated societies, and post-settlement governance entities. It is also available to employers who recently let employees go because of COVID-19, provided they re-hire those employees. To qualify: the business is registered and operating in New Zealand employees are legally working in New Zealand the business has experienced a minimum 30% decline in actual or predicted revenue over the period of a month when compared with the same month last year, and that decline is related to COVID-19. There are special rules for new businesses and high-growth firms the business has taken active steps to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 the business must retain covered employees in employment for the period of the subsidy. The COVID-19 Wage Subsidy will be paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 for people working 20 hours or more per week $350.00 for people working less than 20 hours per week. Employers must make best endeavours to pay employees 80% of their normal income. Where that is not possible – in particular where a business has no activity whatsoever due to the shutdown and workers are not working any hours – employers must pass on at least the whole value of the wage subsidy to each affected worker. If a person’s income is normally less than the subsidy, they can be paid that normal salary. The subsidy is paid as a lump sum to the employer to pass on to employees and covers 12 weeks per employee. The wage subsidy is a Government payment to help employers pay wages. It does not change any other employment law obligations, meaning employees must be paid appropriately under their employment agreements for the hours they work during the lockdown. Read more information, including how to apply, on Work and Income(external link) (external link) 24 March 2020: the Government announced the removal of the $150,000 cap(external link) (external link) 27 March 2020: Government modified scheme to better support workers not able to work during Level 4(external link) (external link) Businesses who are considering laying off workers should consider applying for the Wage Subsidy Scheme. Details about the Wage Subsidy Scheme(external link) (external link) If your business needs help to pay essential workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19 Public Health guidance it could be eligible for the Essential Workers Leave Payment Scheme. This scheme subsidises eligible businesses, and allows them to pay workers who need to take because Ministry of Health guidelines recommend they stay at home, and they can't work from home. The scheme offers the same rates as the Wage Subsidy Scheme of $585.80 per week full-time workers and $350.00 per week for part-time workers. Essential Workers Leave Payment Scheme (external link) Small and medium-sized businesses may be eligible for the Business Finance Guarantee Scheme to protect jobs and support the economy. The Crown in partnership with participating approved banks will support targeted new loans (including increases to existing limits) to eligible businesses, as a response to difficulties caused by COVID-19. Under the scheme, businesses with annual revenue between $250,000 and $80 million can apply to their banks for loans up to $500,000, for up to 3 years. The scheme will offer a total of $6.25 billion in loans to New Zealand businesses. The Government is guaranteeing 80% of the risk, while the banks are covering the remaining 20%. Banks will follow a normal lending process when they make the lending decisions. Further details can be found on the banks’ websites. Announcement of the opening of the scheme(external link) (external link) Business.govt.nz information about the Business Finance Guarantee Scheme(external link) (external link) Measures to support business cash flow and tax measures include: increasing the provisional tax threshold from $2,500 to $5,000 from 2020/2021 increasing the small asset depreciation threshold from $500 to $1,000 — and to $5,000 for the 2020/21 tax year allowing depreciation on commercial and industrial buildings from 2020/2021 removing the hours test from the In-Work Tax Credit (IWTC) from 1 July 2020. Read more information about COVID-19 tax relief measures at ird.govt.nz(external link) (external link) Māori communities and businesses can access help tailored to meet the specific needs of Māori in the face of COVID-19. These include: a Whānau Māori Community and Mārae package reprioritising $10 million from the Māori Development vote to support community outreach Māori Health and Whānau Ora response with $30 million targeted directly to Māori Health services and an extra $15 million to Whānau Ora commissioning agencies supporting Māori Businesses and engaging with Māori with $1 million of funding to enable a needs assessment for Māori businesses, and $470,000 to Te Arawhiti to engage and work with iwi on their COVID-19 pandemic response plans. Read the Government’s media release (beehive.govt.nz)(external link) (external link) Business information relating to COVID-19, how it may affect your business and how you can stay up to date on the business.govt.nz website(external link) (external link) Information about workplace responses to COVID-19 at the employment.govt.nz website(external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone For businesses and employees Employers Employees For essential workers Physical or close contact jobs Sole traders Employers Employees For essential workers Physical or close contact jobs Sole traders For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For businesses and employees For essential workers --- Section Separator --- Essential workers, and those that support them, will continue to provide the necessities of life for everyone in New Zealand during Alert Level 4. This means food, medicine, healthcare, energy, fuel, waste-removal, internet and financial support will continue to be available. If you’re unsure whether you’re an essential business, you should close. We need as many businesses as possible to close to slow the spread of the virus. Which businesses are essential (external link) Alert Level 4 means all people in New Zealand not working in essential businesses should stay at home and stop all physical interactions with others outside of your household. Workers need to take reasonable care of their own health and safety, and the health and safety of others, while working. This means following and cooperating with any reasonable health and safety instructions, policies and procedures that you’re given, to stay safe and to make sure you don’t risk the health and safety of others that you come in contact with through your work. Work with your employer to help develop any new ways of working that are needed to keep you and others safe. If your job is considered essential, your workplace must operate in a way that minimises the risk of COVID-19 transmission. Your workplace should be: minimising, or eliminating if possible, physical interactions among staff and with and between customers ensuring appropriate health, hygiene and safety measures are in place restricting activity to only what is essential during the Alert Level 4 period. These practices may include: working from home as far as possible limiting, or eliminating if possible, physical interaction between staff, eg through physical distancing, split shifts, staggered meal breaks and flexible working arrangements limiting, or eliminating if possible, physical interaction with and between customers, eg through online or phone orders, contactless delivery or managed entry (while also avoiding crowding outside), and physical distancing both inside and outside the premises hygiene basics of hand washing and sanitisers frequent cleaning of premises, especially counters and EFTPOS terminals, and other high-touch surfaces Specific cleaning advice (external link) providing personal protective equipment (PPE) for workers as appropriate. Guidelines on personal protective equipment for essential workers (external link) Workers and workplaces where physical distancing is not possible – or where people may be more likely to come into contact with infected material – may benefit from additional steps to help protect against the potential spread of COVID-19. It is crucial that workers who handle potentially infected material – such as laundry or used tissues – wash their hands regularly, and avoiding touching their faces. If you can ensure more than 2-metres distance from people with potential COVID-19 symptoms and any surfaces or items they may touch – facemasks and gloves are not recommended. If the nature of your job means you may touch surfaces or items also touched by people with potential COVID-19 symptoms, you may consider wearing gloves, however, facemasks are still not recommended. If you may be unable to maintain more than 2-metres contact distance from people with potential COVID-19 symptoms, facemasks and gloves are recommended when this contact is likely to occur. In all situations, regular handwashing should continue. These recommendations are a guide only and workplace settings should consider their ability to maintain the 2-metre rule. In general, surgical/medical masks prevent the dispersal of droplets by an infected patient and the inhalation of droplets if within 2 metres of a coughing individual. If a customer or employee shows signs of being unwell such as a fever, cough or shortness of breath, they should be politely encouraged to leave as soon as possible and to seek help by calling their GP (doctor) or call Healthline, for free, on 0800 358 5453 . How to use facemasks and PPE (external link) Workplace best practice (external link) Informational posters about PPE: PPE guidance for community care providers A4 poster [PDF, 201 KB] (external link) Putting on and taking off PPE A4 poster [PDF, 439 KB] (external link) PPE requirements for essential-non-health workers A4 poster [PDF, 187 KB] (external link) PPE for nasopharyngeal testing A4 poster [PDF, 179 KB] (external link) PPE for staff caring for positive patients in hospital A4 poster [PDF, 184 KB] (external link) If you carry out work in the transport sector, you may have an exemption when travel is required for essential work or when essential work is being undertaken. At all other times, workers must avoid all non-essential travel and follow the guidance for Alert Level 4. Public transport used to transport people working in essential businesses includes domestic aircraft, ferries, buses and trains. Essential workers may be asked, while travelling, to show who they work for. We encourage essential workers to carry some form of identification to show who they are, who they work for, and their role, for example, business card, letter from their employer or work ID. Any questions relating to transport should go to the Ministry of Transport at essentialtravel@transport.govt.nz , or call 04 439 9000 . Transport guidance during Alert level 4 (external link) Making your own arrangements is the preferred approach, due to limited capacity. We encourage you to use your existing networks for in-home care, for example, a neighbour, relative, friend or current carer/nanny who can come to your house, or provide childcare in their own home. There are Public Health rules you need to comply with: The person providing care for your children essentially becomes an extension of your self-isolating household group. This group must remain the same for the whole 4-week period. The carer should not care for children from other households/families (other than their own) over the same period. If a child or carer becomes unwell, they must stay at home. If you're unable to access childcare to perform your essential service, the government has agreed that it will fund other licensed childcare providers (for example through PORSE, OSCAR and Barnados) to provide in-home care to the children aged 0 to 14 of essential workers. They would be subject to the same Public Health rules as set out above. For the purposes of providing care to children of essential workers, the in-home carer will be classified as an essential worker. Barnados Barnados website (external link) Email: covid19enquiries@barnardos.org.nz Phone: 0800 BARNARDOS ( 0800 227 627 ) Edubase / Home Grown Kids Email: info@hgk.co.nz Phone: 0508 44 54 37 PORSE PORSE website (external link) Phone: 0800 023 456 More home-based care options (external link) Some essential workers should or may wish to stay at home for reasons, including: You are sick with COVID-19, or unwell generally. You need to self-isolate, as per Ministry of Health guidelines, due to recent travel or close contact with someone confirmed to have COVID-19. You are caring for dependents who need to self-isolate, as per Ministry of Health guidelines. You, or someone you live with, meets the definition of a vulnerable person, including those who are 70+, pregnant, taking certain medication, or receiving certain treatment. These people are advised to stay home at Alert Level 2 or higher. You do not believe your workplace has adequate health and safety measures to minimise your risk of contracting COVID-19. Workers and employers should follow public health guidance and health and safety laws, work together pragmatically and deal with each other in good faith. A new COVID-19 payment will be available to essential businesses for essential workers from Monday 6 April 2020. The Essential Workers COVID-19 Leave Payment Scheme will support essential workers who have to stay at home to comply with public health guidance, and whose employers are unable to keep paying them. The scheme offers the same rates as the Wage Subsidy Scheme of $585.80 per week for full-time workers and $350.00 per week for part-time workers. The scheme covers three groups of workers: Workers who are self-isolating in accordance with public health guidance because they have contracted the virus or have come into contact with someone who has contracted the virus (or have a dependent they need to care for who is sick or self-isolating) Workers deemed at higher risk if they contract COVID-19, in accordance with public health guidance and as such should self-isolate Workers who have household members who are deemed at higher risk if they contract COVID-19, in accordance with public health and as such should self-isolate. Essential employers who can financially support their workers with leave requirements or any special paid leave entitlements – without using the subsidy – should continue to do so. Work and Income will release more information about the Essential Workers COVID-19 Leave Payment Scheme on its website on Monday 6 April at noon. Details will be available on the Work and Income website (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone For businesses and employees Employers Employees For essential workers Physical or close contact jobs Sole traders Employers Employees For essential workers Physical or close contact jobs Sole traders For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For businesses and employees Physical or close contact jobs --- Section Separator --- Workers and workplaces where physical distancing is not possible – or where people may be more likely to come into contact with infected material – may benefit from additional steps to help protect against the potential spread of COVID-19. It is crucial that workers who handle potentially infected material – such as laundry or used tissues – wash their hands regularly, and avoiding touching their faces. If you can ensure more than 2-metres distance from people with potential COVID-19 symptoms and any surfaces or items they may touch –  facemasks and gloves are not recommended. If the nature of your job means you may touch surfaces or items also touched by people with potential COVID-19 symptoms, you may consider wearing gloves, however, facemasks are still not recommended. If you may be unable to maintain more than 2-metres contact distance from people with potential COVID-19 symptoms, facemasks and gloves are recommended when this contact is likely to occur. In all situations, regular handwashing should continue. These recommendations are a guide only and workplace settings should consider their ability to maintain the 2-metre rule. In general, surgical/medical masks prevent the dispersal of droplets by an infected patient and the inhalation of droplets if within 2 metres of a coughing individual. If a customer or employee shows signs of being unwell such as a fever, cough or shortness of breath, they should be politely encouraged to leave as soon as possible and to seek help by calling their GP (doctor) or call Healthline (for free) on 0800 358 5453 . More information on the use of facemasks and PPE (external link) Find out about workplace best practice PPE guidance for community care providers A4 poster [PDF, 201 KB] Putting on and taking off PPE A4 poster [PDF, 439 KB] PPE requirements for essential-non-health workers A4 poster [PDF, 181 KB] PPE for nasopharyngeal testing A4 poster [PDF, 179 KB] PPE for staff caring for positive patients in hospital A4 poster [PDF, 184 KB] Information about workplace responses to COVID-19 at the employment.govt.nz website (external link) Information update about COVID-19 at the employment.govt.nz website (external link) Business information relating to COVID-19, how it may affect your business and how you can stay up to date on the business.govt.nz website (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone For businesses and employees Employers Employees For essential workers Physical or close contact jobs Sole traders Employers Employees For essential workers Physical or close contact jobs Sole traders For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For businesses and employees Sole traders --- Section Separator --- Sole traders can: follow public health advice including washing and drying hands well before and after any contact with customers ensure surfaces that are frequently touched – such as desks, countertops, tools, electronics, and doorknobs – are cleaned thoroughly and often minimise the risks of exposure to COVID-19 by suggesting to your customers they let you know if they are unwell with a cough, fever, or shortness of breath and rescheduling work as needed apply physical distancing principles at work and minimise face-to-face contact with customers wherever possible. For example, a builder could give their client a call to tell them about any progress, instead of meeting them in person develop a plan for rescheduling work if customers have to self-isolate or become unwell reach out to business groups or industry organisations to share information and connect with others in similar situations. Find out about workplace best practice Business information relating to COVID-19, how it may affect your business and how you can stay up to date (external link) Information about financial assistance for workers and businesses Information about workplace responses to COVID-19 (external link) Information update about COVID-19 (external link) Information about running a business from home (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone For businesses and employees Employers Employees For essential workers Physical or close contact jobs Sole traders Employers Employees For essential workers Physical or close contact jobs Sole traders For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For community groups
Home Help and advice For community groups Community groups, faith-based groups, clubs and societies --- Section Separator --- All indoor and outdoor events cannot proceed. This does not include workplaces of people undertaking essential businesses. These requirements apply to family and social gatherings such as birthdays, funerals, tangi or weddings. These gatherings cannot go ahead. We are asking you only spend time with those who you are in self-isolation with, and keep your distance from all others at all times. Find out more on our events and gatherings page Connect with planning going on in your local community around COVID-19. Your local Civil Defence Emergency Management Group may be able to help give advice for your group. Connect with them at CivilDefence.govt.nz (external link) Place tips and advice about COVID-19 in obvious and visible places, including health tips and where to go for help and advice. Ensure surfaces that are frequently touched – such as shared desks, countertops, kitchen areas, equipment, electronics and doorknobs – are cleaned frequently and thoroughly with disinfectant. Ensure there are appropriate handwashing facilities, tissues and lined containers for the safe disposal of used tissues available Wherever possible design spaces so that physical distancing is possible (eg ensuring good audio and video is available). Develop a communication plan to contact staff, volunteers and attendees whenever updates are needed. Identify actions to take to postpone or cancel events, programmes for groups at greater risk – such as the elderly or vulnerable. Ensure staff, volunteers and those using the space are aware of these health steps, and of the importance of following them. Ensure staff, volunteers and attendees follow the simple steps. If you see or hear people or groups being picked on because of racism or discrimination, call it out. Fighting COVID-19 requires us all to unite as one. --- Section Separator --- For everyone For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups Community groups, faith-based groups, clubs and societies Homeless shelters Volunteering Community groups, faith-based groups, clubs and societies Homeless shelters Volunteering For Māori
Home Help and advice For community groups Homeless shelters --- Section Separator --- Work with them to develop a plan for what to do if a COVID-19 case is suspected or confirmed in or around your facility. Develop plans for what to do if staff or volunteers are unable to come to work due to self-isolation or illness. Develop a plan for communicating with staff, volunteers and attendees whenever updates are needed. If possible, identify space where those who become unwell can be separated from others. Designate a room and bathroom (if available) and develop a plan for cleaning the room safely. Ensure surfaces that are frequently touched – such as shared desks, countertops, kitchen areas, equipment, electronics and doorknobs – are cleaned frequently and thoroughly with disinfectant. Ensure there are appropriate handwashing facilities, tissues and lined containers for the safe disposal of used tissues available. Place tips and advice about COVID-19 in obvious and visible places, including health tips and where to go for help and advice. Ensure staff, volunteers and those using the space are aware of these health steps, and of the importance of following them. --- Section Separator --- For everyone For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups Community groups, faith-based groups, clubs and societies Homeless shelters Volunteering Community groups, faith-based groups, clubs and societies Homeless shelters Volunteering For Māori
Home Help and advice For community groups Volunteering --- Section Separator --- The best way you can help is to ensure you follow the Ministry of Health advice on staying healthy and self-isolating if unwell. Once you are sure you have your own health in hand, talk to friends, whānau and neighbours to see if anyone in your local networks needs support. Use the internet or local knowledge and networks to connect with and support local clubs and societies. They will be able to tell you where help is needed and how to help those most affected by COVID-19. You can also connect with planning going on in your local community around COVID-19. Your local Civil Defence Emergency Management Group may be able to help connect you with any existing work. Connect with them at CivilDefence.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups Community groups, faith-based groups, clubs and societies Homeless shelters Volunteering Community groups, faith-based groups, clubs and societies Homeless shelters Volunteering For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone
Home Help and advice For everyone About COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a new virus that can affect your lungs and airways. It’s caused by a type of coronavirus. There are simple steps you can take to protect you, your family and whānau. If you’re not sure what assistance may be available, don’t know who to contact for help, call the free government helpline on 0800 779 997 (8am to 10pm, 7 days a week). For advice, support and general enquiries call 0800 22 66 57 8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday and 8am to 5pm, Saturday to Sunday. Symptoms of COVID-19 are similar to a range of other illnesses such as influenza and do not necessarily mean that you have COVID-19. Symptoms include: a cough a high temperature (at least 38°C) shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. Difficulty breathing is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have these symptoms please call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 or you can call your doctor immediately. If you're outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Call your doctor before visiting. We’re still learning about COVID-19. We don’t yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected. Current evidence suggests it's 2 to 10 days. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. People may get infected by the virus if they touch those surfaces or objects, and then touch their mouth, nose or eyes. That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands, and use good cough and sneeze etiquette. New Zealand’s 4-level COVID-19 alert system specifies public health and social measures to be taken against COVID-19. The alert system means people can see and plan for the kinds of restrictions we may be required to put in place. This includes escalating restrictions on human contact, travel and business operations. More information about the COVID-19 alert system --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Animal welfare --- Section Separator --- If you’re concerned about an animal’s welfare call the Ministry for Primary Industries (MPI) on 0800 008 333 . If your animals need treatment, contact your own veterinary clinic. If you do not have a regular veterinarian, or yours is not open, you can find nearby clinics on Find-a-Vet. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) NZ Veterinary Association information including how to manage animals when in self-isolation (external link) If you are self-isolating, you must contact your veterinarian before visiting them or they visit you including for production animals. This applies even if your animal is being presented by someone else. --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Events / gatherings --- Section Separator --- All indoor and outdoor events cannot proceed. This does not include workplaces of people undertaking essential businesses. These requirements apply to family and social gatherings such as birthdays, funerals, tangi or weddings. These gatherings can not go ahead. We are asking you only spend time with those who you are in self-isolation with, and keep your distance from all others at all times. Supermarkets should not close, but may wish to review how often they clean high-touch surfaces, such as trolleys, baskets and touch screens. Supermarkets may also wish to limit how many people are in their store at a time to ensure physical distancing. In the first instance, please contact the event organiser. They will likely need some time to determine their process and obligations for any refunds, payment to suppliers etc. Please be patient as they work through the process to meet any obligations they may have. If you believe you have observed behaviour that is not appropriate and you are certain the individuals concerned should be self-isolating please complete the Police online report. Police online reporting form (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Exercising safely and using your car --- Section Separator --- Walks and other activities like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2-metre distance from anybody outside of your household. Don’t use services like share-bikes or hire scooters. Stick to simple outdoor exercise, and avoid activities where you can get injured or lost. For example, don’t go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping. It’s important the emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. Stay close to home. Enjoy your neighbourhood, but go no further. For example, if you live near a beach, you may go for a walk down to the waterfront. But don’t drive to another suburb to go to the beach. If you have a dog, try walking it around the block instead of driving with it to a park. ‘Local’ means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. City dwellers may have a supermarket, pharmacy or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to drive further. If you do leave your house, you must always keep a 2-metre distance from other people who are not part of your household. If an area is too crowded to keep to a 2-metre space between you and others, go home. Don’t stop and chat, smile and wave instead. Using private vehicles for transport is allowed. However, you can only travel if you’re: accessing essential services shopping for food or medicine an essential worker travelling to, from, or as part of your essential work. You should only travel in your car with people from your household. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Family violence and sexual violence prevention --- Section Separator --- The Government and the Police continue to take family violence and sexual violence very seriously. Violence is a crime at any time. Family violence and sexual violence services are essential services and will remain available, even if services need to be delivered in different ways. It is okay to ask for help if you or someone else is in danger. If you think someone could be harmed or may harm themselves, call the Police on 111 , even if you’re not sure. Stay as connected as you can, and keep an eye out for the safety and wellbeing of children and vulnerable adults. Talk to friends, whānau and neighbours if you need support, or to see if they need help. Use social media to keep in touch and check-in with each other. If you are a victim of family violence, sexual violence, or if there is someone that makes you fearful, threatens or harasses you, seek help as soon as possible. You have the right to be safe. The following helplines continue to be available for people needing help: Family Services 211 Helpline ( 0800 211 211 ) – for help finding, and direct transfer to, community-based health and social support services in your area Visit the Family Services Directory online (external link) Find your Local Women's Refuge by calling 0800 743 843 (0800 REFUGE) to be linked up with an advocate in your area The Women’s Refuge website hosts a list of refuges near you (external link) Te Ohaakii a Hine National Network Ending Sexual Violence Together Find out where sexual violence support services in your area (external link) Safe to Talk – sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe To Talk (external link) Victim Support – call 0800 842 846 . 24-hour service for all victims of serious crime Visit Victim Support's website to find out how they can support victims during COVID-19 (external link) Victim Information Line/Victim Centre – call 0800 650 654 or email victimscentre@justice.govt.nz Find out more about the Victim Information Line and Victim Centre (external link) Women's Refuge – call 0800 733 843 (0800 REFUGE) for 24-hour service advocacy and accommodation for women and their children experiencing family violence Find out more about Women's Refuge (external link) Shine domestic abuse services – free call 0508 744 633 (9am to 11pm) if you're experiencing domestic abuse, or want to know how to help someone else Find out more about Shine's helpline (external link) Family violence information line – call 0800 456 450 to find out about local services or how to help someone near you Find out more about family violence and getting help (external link) Elder Abuse Helpline – call 0800 32 668 65 (0800 EA NOT OK). 24-hour service answered by registered nurses who can connect to local elder abuse specialist providers Here are signs of elder abuse or neglect to look out for (external link) Tu Wahine Trust – call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) Shakti New Zealand – call 0800 742 584 for culturally competent support services for women, children and families of Asian, African and Middle Eastern origin who have experienced domestic violence Find out more about Shakti New Zealand (external link) Safe to Talk – sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe To Talk (external link) Rape Crisis Centres – call 0800 88 3300 for contact details of your local centre. Provides support for survivors of sexual abuse, their families, friends and whānau Find out more about Rape Crisis Centres (external link) Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand – call 0800 044 344 . Offers one-to-one, peer and support groups for male survivors of sexual abuse and their significant others Find out more about Male Survivors Aotearoa New Zealand (external link) Tu Wahine Trust – call 09 838 8700 for kaupapa Māori counselling, therapy and support for survivors of sexual harm (mahi tukino) and violence within whānau Find out more about Tu Wahine Trust (external link) ACC Sensitive Claims Unit – call 0800 735 566 for access to services related to sexual abuse or sexual assault Find out more about accessing services via the ACC Sensitive Claims Unit (external link) Hey Bro helpline – call 0800 HeyBro ( 0800 439 276 ). 24/7 help for men who feel they're going to harm a loved one or whānau member Find out more about Hey Bro (external link) Safe to Talk – sexual harm helpline. Call 0800 044 334 , text 4334 or email support@safetotalk.nz Chat to counsellors online or find out more at Safe To Talk (external link) Korowai Tumanoko – text or call 022 474 7044 for a kaupapa Māori service for those with concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Korowai Tumanoko (external link) Stop – support for concerning or harmful sexual behaviour Find out more about Stop (external link) Need to Talk? 1737 – free call or text 1737 any time for support from a trained counsellor Find out more about Need to Talk? 1737 (external link) Youthline – call 0800 376 633 , free text 234 or email talk@youthline.co.nz Chat online or find out more at Youthline (external link) Kidsline – call 0800 54 37 54 (0800 kidsline) for young people up to 18 years of age (24-hour service) Find out more about Kidsline (external link) Skylight – call 0800 299 100 helping children, young people and their families and whānau through tough times of change, loss, trauma and grief Find out more about Skylight (external link) Oranga Tamariki – call 0508 325 459 (0508 FAMILY) or email contact@ot.govt.nz for concerns about children and young people Find out more about getting in touch with Oranga Tamariki (external link) OUTline NZ – call 0800 688 5463 for confidential telephone support for sexuality or gender identity issues Find out more about OUTline (external link) You, me, us – promoting healthy queer, trans and takatāpui relationships Find out more about You, me, us (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Financial support --- Section Separator --- If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs (rent, mortgage, board, emergency housing) repairs or replacing appliances emergency dental treatment emergency medical treatment water tank refill. Financial support, eligibility criteria, and how to apply (external link) Work and Income call centres are experiencing very high demand at the moment, so we recommend you check its website first.  If you don’t have access to the internet you can call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you are worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. A range of options are available to help. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with offers tips, guides and tools support online or you can email it at office@sorted.org.nz . Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) Follow Sorted on Facebook (external link) View helpful videos on the Sorted YouTube channel (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz . Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If the business where you work is laying people off or reducing your hours because of COVID-19 it may qualify for the wage subsidy to help it keep going. If you’re an employer, contractor, sole trader or are self-employed you may also qualify. The subsidy is a lump sum payment for the employer to pass on to employees. It covers 12 weeks per employee and pays $585.80 per week full-time workers and $350.00 per week for part-time workers. More information about the wage subsidy, including how to apply, on Work and Income (external link) 24 March 2020: the Government announced the removal of the $150,000 cap (external link) 27 March: Government modified scheme to better support workers not able to work during Level 4 (external link) If the business you work for needs help to pay essential workers who need to take leave because of COVID-19 Public Health guidance it could be eligible for the Essential Workers Leave Payment Scheme. This scheme subsidises eligible businesses, and allows them to pay workers who need to take leave because Ministry of Health guidelines recommend they stay at home, and they can't work from home. The scheme offers the same rates as the Wage Subsidy Scheme of $585.80 per week full-time workers and $350.00 per week for part-time workers. Essential Workers Leave Payment Scheme (external link) If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) If you are renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Help could include a 6-month freeze on residential rent increases and increased protection from having your tenancy ended. It is important tenants do not face the prospect of homelessness during this challenging time. This will also enable families and individuals to self-isolate, to stay home and maintain physical distancing, and support everyone’s public health. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Development has more information (external link) New Zealand’s retail banks are offering to defer repayments for all residential mortgages for up to 6 months for customers financially affected by COVID-19. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you will not need to make principal and interest payments on your loan for up to 6 months. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. It is important to know that interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess the suitability for each customer who is asking for a deferral. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. Māori communities and businesses can access help tailored to meet the specific needs of Māori in the face of COVID-19. These include: a Whānau Māori Community and Mārae package reprioritising $10 million from the Māori Development vote to support community outreach A Māori Health and Whānau Ora response with $30 million targeted directly to Māori Health services and an extra $15 million to Whānau Ora commissioning agencies supporting Māori Businesses and engaging with Māori with $1 million of funding to enable a needs assessment for Māori businesses, and $470,000 to Te Arawhiti to engage and work with iwi on their COVID-19 pandemic response plans. Read the Government’s media release (beehive.govt.nz) (external link) Other elements of the $12.1 billion package include income support and further investment in our health. Read about the wider $12.1 billion package at treasury.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Funerals and tangi --- Section Separator --- To stop the spread of COVID-19, gathering together for funerals and tangi is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. Only people from the same self-isolation bubble as the deceased person can go to the funeral home and cemetery with the deceased, and only if these are in the same region. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to keep your physical distance. This applies to all deceased persons, regardless of when and where they died, or the cause of death. It includes gatherings at burials, cremations, memorial services, open or closed caskets or viewings, funeral wakes, processions or receptions and social gatherings, both indoors and outdoors. We must protect people’s health and ensure our health system can look after all people in New Zealand who become sick. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. Funeral directors provide essential services and will continue working during Level 4. They will be able to guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include: livestreaming services on social media, or videoing them for later viewing holding the funeral or tangi after the Alert Level 4 restrictions ease. Bear in mind that we don’t know when that might be, and there might be practical or cultural reasons why this is not an option. holding a memorial service later, when restrictions on gatherings are lifted and it is safe to do so. Your local funeral director Your iwi or hapū. Funeral Directors’ Association of New Zealand (external link) Information after a death – Te Hokinga ā Wairua End of Life Service (external link) Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. Guidelines for tangihana is available on the Tikanga Māori and gatherings page Funeral guidelines for Pacific Peoples [PDF, 123 KB] Find translations of the funeral guidelines for Pacific Peoples Not being able to say goodbye to a loved one, in the way we are used to, will be very challenging. Read through the basic advice on mental wellbeing and call or text 1737 – free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week – to talk with a trained counsellor. Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Help accessing essential goods --- Section Separator --- Most people can access food, medicine and other essentials for themselves and their whānau. People can do this either through their own means or through their community providers or support networks like whānau, friends, iwi and neighbours. For some people, this is not a possibility and you may need extra help to access the things you need during self-isolation like: food medicines transport to get essential goods. If you find yourself in this situation help is available from your local Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Group. This service is for people that do not have any other options available to them. Food banks and food rescue organisations are considered an essential service. Food banks must operate a one-in-one-out rule, and cannot sell or provide cooked food. Your Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Group will be working with food banks and other organisations to make sure that those in need are able to access food and other essential items. Information for food banks, food rescue and community food services (external link) Your local Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) Group operates 7 days a week from 7am to 7pm. This service is for people that do not have any other options available to them. The phone number for your local CDEM group is below. Northland – 0800 790 791 Auckland – 0800 222 296 Waikato – 0800 800 405 Bay of Plenty – 0800 884 222 Hawke’s Bay – 0800 422 923 Tairāwhiti – 0800 653 800 Taranaki – 0800 900 077 Manawatū-Whanganui – 0800 725 678 Wellington – 0800 141 967 Marlborough – 03 520 7400 or welfare@marlboroughcdem.co.nz Nelson – 0800 50 50 75 Canterbury – 0800 24 24 11 West Coast – 03 900 9329 Otago – 0800 322 4000 Southland – 0800 890 127 or covid19@cdsouthland.nz Chatham Islands – 03 305 0033 ex 715 List updated 1 April 2020. You can also get financial support from the Ministry for Social Development. This works well if you have your own way of getting the goods you need. Find out more about financial support --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone How to access healthcare --- Section Separator --- If you need to see a doctor or other medical professional you must phone first. Most consultations will happen over the phone, or by videoconference, to stop any risk of the disease spreading by person to person contact. If a face-to-face meeting is required, your doctor or other medical professional will organise this with you. If you are concerned about any COVID-19 symptoms you are experiencing, please call Healthline for free on 08 00 358 5453 or your doctor. Find out more about COVID-19 symptoms (external link) (external link) If you require any medical assistance, you must phone your doctor or the hospital first. Health and medical facilities are recognised as an essential service and will remain open, even in a Level 4 lockdown. If you are in need of urgent assistance, call emergency services on 111 . Many people in New Zealand are reaching out for help and advice but it’s important phone lines for Healthline and GPs to be kept free so those who need medical advice can ring through. Everything will be done to get people the support they need as quickly as possible. Please try to only call Healthline or your doctor when you need medical assistance. If your call is not directly related to medical assistance, you may be able to find answers to your questions on this website. If you are in need of urgent assistance, call emergency services on 111 . Your doctor will have in place ways to get a prescription without seeing your doctor face to face. Please ring your doctor for further information. Pharmacies are recognised as an essential service and will remain open, even in Level 4. If you need to go to your local pharmacy, phone them first to ensure you are able to go in-store. If you are an at-risk group you may need to ask someone to pick up your medicines on your behalf. At-risk groups You are at high risk if you are over 70, pregnant or have underlying health conditions. People with underlying medical conditions include a compromised immune system, liver disease, cancer, kidney disease, heart disease and diabetes mellitus, respiratory issues or on immunosuppressant medications. You might live with an at-risk person and want information on how to protect their health. Self-isolation advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) New Zealand is currently at Alert Level 4. This may impact the way you receive medical care if you are pregnant or have recently given birth. During your pregnancy, face-to-face check-ups may be reduced. Your midwife will still make contact with you over the phone or by video call. When you give birth, maternity facilities will have restrictions on the number of visitors and support people you can have with you. If you have been diagnosed with COVID-19, inform your midwife or midwifery practice. Information for pregnant women and those who have recently given birth (external link) Are you or your whānau unwell? The best ways to get support are to: call your family doctor for advice or information. If you think you’ve been exposed to COVID-19 through contact with someone who has it, it’s important to let your family doctor know. call Healthline with your COVID-19 health-related concerns. The call is free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week on 0800 358 5453 . If you're outside New Zealand call + 64 9 358 5453 . you can also call Healthline if you don’t have a family doctor, if you’re feeling unwell but you’re not sure if you need to see a doctor, or for advice about what’s happening for you and next steps. call Plunketline if you have questions about your child or baby’s health or wellbeing on 0800 933 922 and speak to a Plunket nurse. Plunketline runs 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. contact your midwife for support and advice during pregnancy and postnatal. In an emergency, always call 111 . The Ministry of Health regularly updates its webpage with detailed health advice (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Influenza vaccine --- Section Separator --- To look after our community and make sure our health system is there for those who need it most, we all need to look after our vulnerable populations. One way to do this is to make sure those most at risk of influenza, get immunised first. Get vaccinated against influenza early if you are one of these priority groups: People aged 65 and over Pregnant women People with a serious health condition such as severe asthma, diabetes, cancer, or heart disease, and young children with a history of severe respiratory illness Full list of eligible health conditions (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Leaving your house --- Section Separator --- Please stay at home as much as you can. Any unnecessary travel could spread COVID-19. If you are over 70, or are immunosuppressed, you should not be leaving the house at all. Some people will need to go outside occasionally. For example to take a short walk for exercise or mental wellbeing, or to visit local essential services like the doctor, pharmacy or supermarket. If you do leave the house: keep a 2-metre distance from other people at all times stay local if you go out for exercise only exercise alone or with the people you live with if you're exercising outside and it's too busy to keep a 2-metre distance from others, go home — go out later help our emergency services by only doing safe activities, such as going for a walk don't do activities that may require search and rescue services. For example, don’t go swimming, surfing, boating, hunting or tramping don’t touch surfaces others may have touched — avoid park benches or playgrounds don’t travel far from home, especially not to baches or second homes only shop for essential supplies wash your hands regularly. See more tips about Shopping safely Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. If you live in an area where a walk in the neighbourhood isn’t practical, you can drive a short distance to reach an area, like a beach, where you can go for a quick walk. If the beach is busy, and you can’t stay 2 metres away from other people, go home. Do not stay at the beach and sunbathe and please do not swim. Most of all during this time, we encourage you to continue to be kind to one another. Stay in touch with your older relatives and vulnerable people, talk to your friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone and see if they need your support. Acts of kindness and maintaining these connections is essential while we work to stop the spread of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- ​Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel stressed or lonely when self-isolating, but there are some things you can do to feel better. Even if you are not sick you may be feeling anxious about COVID-19. This is normal. Reach out to your usual supports over the phone – family and whānau, friends and workmates. Sharing how we feel and offering support to others is important. We also recommend sticking to a routine such as having regular mealtimes, bedtimes and exercising. If you feel you're not coping, it's important to talk with a health professional. For support with grief, anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 – free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week – to talk with a trained counsellor. Tell yourself that how you are feeling is a normal reaction and will pass – it’s nothing to be afraid of. We’re all in this together, and while we might not be able to be physically in touch right now, it’s important to stay connected in other ways. New Zealand is known for its manaakitanga and now more than ever we need to remember the power of kindness and uniting together. If you’re not sure what assistance may be available, or you don’t know who to contact for help, call the Government Helpline on 0800 779 997 , 8am to 10pm, 7 days a week. While there are things that we can’t control now, there are things we can do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of your loved ones: This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other to get through this. While we are limiting social contact to contain the spread of COVID-19, there are still lots of ways we can connect. It’s completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared in the current situation. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you’re feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you’re feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, have regular e-meetings with colleagues or virtual coffee dates with friends and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling alone or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your media intake. Get the facts from this website to help distinguish facts from rumours. Seek information updates at specific times once or twice a day. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Notice if your symptoms are getting worse. Talk to your GP, counsellor, caseworker or mental health team about how they can continue supporting you. Can your appointments take place over the phone, via email, text or video chat? What tips do they have to help you get through? Who can you call if you need help urgently? --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Scams and frauds exploiting the spread of COVID-19 have been noted overseas and are expected to be seen in New Zealand. They may arrive in the form of an email, text, phone call or through social media. For more information on what to watch out for and where to report scams, visit the following websites: COVID-19 Investment scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) COVID-19 Phishing and cyber scams: CERT (external link) General COVID-19 Scam information: CFFC (external link) Netsafe website (external link) Scamwatch: Consumer protection website (external link) It is not illegal for businesses to increase their prices, however, the Fair Trading Act prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct and false representations. This means that if a business gives a reason for a price increase it must be true, otherwise the business risks breaching the law. If you suspect a business is providing false or misleading information as to why prices have increased, you can make a complaint to the Commerce Commission. Make a complaint on the Commerce Commission website (external link) You can now raise concerns about high prices at supermarkets. If you are concerned about prices at your local supermarket, please report these, along with a copy of your receipt to pricewatch@mbie.govt.nz . Hand sanitiser is good for cleaning your hands if soap and water are not available. Make sure you use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. There have been reports of sanitisers being sold that have less than 60% alcohol. These are not as effective. How to wash your hands properly --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Parents and caregivers --- Section Separator --- Educational providers – including all schools – will be closed while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. Schools will be provide information about what this means directly to parents. The upcoming school term break will be brought forward to start on Monday 30 March . For the remainder of this week, and through the term break, schools will establish ways to deliver teaching online and remotely. Help children cope with anxiety by providing accurate information. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events such as COVID-19. Parents, caregivers, whānau and teachers will have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. Children will react to and follow your verbal and non-verbal cues. If you are able to stay informed and realistic, it will be easier for you to reassure children effectively as well. Children need factual, age-appropriate information about COVID-19 so that they can also feel informed and in control. They need to know how they can play a part in avoiding infection and slowing the spread of the virus. They also need to feel that any fears they may have can be talked about and addressed. If no one in your family has COVID-19, nor has had close contact with anyone with COVID-19, emphasise to your children that they – and your family – are fine. Evidence shows children are less susceptible to COVID-19. Parents and caregivers should follow standard guidelines to prevent the virus spreading by: covering coughs and sneezes with disposable tissues or elbow washing hands for at least 20 seconds with water and soap and drying them thoroughly: before eating or handling food after using the toilet after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose after caring for sick people. before eating or handling food after using the toilet after coughing, sneezing or blowing your nose after caring for sick people. Let your children talk about their feelings, and help reframe their concerns into the appropriate perspective. You know your children best. If they have a lot of questions, consider how much extra information would or wouldn’t be helpful for them to know before replying. Dr Michelle Dickinson has some great videos for kids about COVID-19 (external link) Where possible, essential workers need to make their own arrangements for childcare, due to limited capacity. We know this will not be possible for everyone. Alternative arrangements have been made so essential workers can access childcare and continue to work. Your employer will tell you if you qualify as an essential worker for these purposes. Making your own arrangements is the preferred approach. We encourage you to use your existing networks for in-home care, for example, a neighbour, relative, friend or current carer/nanny who can come to your house, or provide childcare in their own home. There are Public Health rules you need to comply with: The person providing care for your children essentially becomes an extension of your self-isolating household group. This group must remain the same for the whole 4-week period. The carer should not care for children from other households/families, other than their own, over the same period. If a child or carer becomes unwell, they must stay at home. If you are unable to access childcare to perform your essential service, the government has agreed that it will fund other licensed childcare providers to provide in-home care to the children aged 0 to 14 of essential workers. Examples of licensed child care providers are PORSE, OSCAR and Barnados. They would be subject to the same Public Health rules as set out above. For the purposes of providing care to children of essential workers, the in-home carer will be classified as an essential worker. The Ministry of Education website lists all available providers, and this list is updated as more information becomes available (external link) Some of the key providers include: Barnados Barnados website (external link) Email: covid19enquiries@barnardos.org.nz Phone: 0800 BARNARDOS ( 0800 227 627 ) Edubase / Home Grown Kids Email: info@hgk.co.nz Phone: 0508 44 54 37 PORSE PORSE website (external link) Phone: 0800 023 456 The best thing everyone can do to stop the spread of COVID-19 is to stay home . This includes parents with shared custody arrangements, and their children. The Principal Family Court Judge has released guidance for parents with shared custody arrangements. Generally, children whose parents live within an hour’s drive of each other can continue to go between 2 homes if you have a shared bubble arrangement. Your shared bubble can include 2 households at most. An arrangement with more than 2 households would risk spreading COVID-19. Simple precautions should be taken to protect the health of parents and children. This includes parents from different households keeping a distance of more than 2 metres. If parents are more than an hour’s drive away, then the children should stay in one home. Children should also stay in one home if they're feeling unwell, or if someone in their home is unwell or has been overseas in the last 14 days. This will protect the health of parents, caregivers and children. More information on managing shared custody (external link) The Ministry of Education is working with all schools and early childhood centres and is providing resources and additional support. We know that maintaining routines is important and children look to both their parents and teachers for this support. It’s natural for children to want to be at school to play and learn with their peers so where possible schools will operate as usual. For updated information about possible closures check with your school or early childhood centre. Some children may be feeling worried about COVID-19 and being at school will give them further opportunities to understand what’s happening and who is helping. If you want to talk to your children about COVID-19 Support information for children (external link) If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Phone: 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Email: contact@ot.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Renters and homeowners --- Section Separator --- It is important that tenants do not face the prospect of homelessness during this challenging time. This will also enable families and individuals to self-isolate, to stay home and maintain physical distancing, and support the public health of all people in New Zealand. Landlords will not be able to end tenancies during the lockdown period, regardless of when the notice was provided, except for some very limited circumstances. Tenants that have previously received notices to end their tenancies can stay in their rental properties if they wish. Read more details on the Tenancy Services website (external link) As of Thursday 26 March, there is a freeze on rent increases. This means that landlords can’t increase rent for their rental properties. This will apply for an initial period of 6 months. If the landlord issued notice to increase the rent before Thursday 26 March, but the increase is not yet in place, the notice has no effect and the rent remains at the original level. Read more details on the Tenancy Services website (external link) If you are a tenant, you must remain where you stayed on the night of 25 March 2020. You must only move house under extreme circumstances, for example, if you would otherwise have nowhere else to live. If you do have to move, you must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 4 rules. For example, you should sign tenancy agreements digitally, and should move house without any contact with other people. You cannot hire a removal service. If you gave notice to your landlord to end your tenancy prior to 25 March 2020, this can be withdrawn. If your landlord gave notice to you to end your tenancy, that notice is no longer valid (unless you both agree otherwise) and your current tenancy agreement can continue. If you had signed a new periodic tenancy agreement before the lockdown, you can give 21 days’ notice to the new landlord (but may have to pay double rent for the period). If you had signed a new fixed-term tenancy agreement, you should try to arrange with your new landlord to cancel this. Landlords are being encouraged to be flexible and accommodating and to support their tenants at this time. However, if you can’t come to an agreement with your landlord, the Tenancy Tribunal can help to resolve any issues. Contact the Tenancy Tribunal (external link) New Zealand’s retail banks are offering to defer repayments for all residential mortgages for up to 6 months for customers financially affected by COVID-19. Mortgage repayment deferrals mean that affected customers who apply to their bank will not make principal and interest payments on their loans for up to 6 months. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to provide assistance to affected customers. Key details of this scheme: It’s important to know that interest on these loans will still accrue, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess the suitability for each customer who is asking for a deferral. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. If you have sold or purchased a property, and settlement was due to occur during Alert Level 4, you are encouraged to reach out to the other party and come to an agreement about delaying settlement until after the lockdown has ended. This is because of the government’s requirements to limit physical movement. For any new sale and purchase agreements, it is recommended that lawyers insert a clause into the agreement to defer settlement until the 10th working day after the alert level is reduced to 2 or under. If your home is within an apartment building, you may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for people living in apartments: Stay within your household group and keep a 2-metre distance from other people in your building at all times. If there is hand sanitiser available at the building entrance, use this as you enter and exit the building. Wash your hands frequently, particularly before leaving, and immediately on returning to, your apartment. If you need to use a lift, wait until it is empty and only use the lift with your household group. If you need to touch a frequently used surface in a common area (such as a door handle, stair rail or lift button) use your elbow or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. Avoid communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools, and other gathering areas. Ask for deliveries to be left at your apartment building entrance for your collection. Only members of your household group should come into your apartment or join you when you go out for a walk or take some exercise. If there are vulnerable, elderly or self-isolating people in your building, you may wish to collect prescriptions or groceries on their behalf. If so, leave at their apartment door and avoid all physical contact. People living in apartment buildings may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for body corporates to support people living in apartments: Close all communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools and other communal gathering areas. Ensure regular and robust cleaning, with particular emphasis on disinfecting surfaces in common areas (such as door handles, lift buttons and stair rails). Place hand sanitisers at all building entrances, with notices asking people to use as they enter or exit the building. Place notices in the entrance foyer and by the lifts to advise that people should: only use the lifts one at a time, or with their household group. press lift buttons and touch door handles or stair rails with elbows or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. only use the lifts one at a time, or with their household group. press lift buttons and touch door handles or stair rails with elbows or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. Make sure all deliveries are left at the front door of the apartment building for collection. Post notices reminding people that they have to follow the government guidelines, in particular, maintaining a distance of at least 2-metres from other people, and washing hands frequently. Ask owners renting out their apartments to ensure their tenants (including any commercial tenants) know all the body corporate’s rules. Find out if there are residents who are vulnerable, elderly or self-isolating in your building, and ask if there are other residents who could volunteer to support these people (for example, by collecting prescriptions or groceries on their behalf). Any goods should be left at their apartment door and all physical contact avoided. You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do urgent maintenance. The work must be essential to maintaining the necessities of life, or critical to safety. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Find more information on the Building Performance website (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Self-isolation advice if you're unwell --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation means staying at home. The Government has asked all people in New Zealand to stay at home to help stop the spread of COVID-19. If you have COVID-19, or if you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. Take common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. Everybody you live with must stay at home. If somebody you live with develops symptoms of COVID-19 like a cough, fever, shortness of breath, sneezing or a runny nose, they should call their regular doctor. If they do not have a regular doctor they can call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re unwell, you should not be sharing a bed with others. Speak with your family and whānau about sleeping arrangements. Avoid sleeping in a common area until you’re feeling better. Aim to stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can be opened. Try to keep the window open as much as possible to enable ventilation and airflow as this will help to keep clean air moving through your room. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms as much as possible and keep shared spaces clean and well ventilated. Clean surfaces with disinfectant after you use them. Try to avoid touching them after you have cleaned them. This includes areas like kitchen benches and sink tops. If you use a shared toilet and bathroom, it’s important that you clean them after you have used them every time. For example, wiping surfaces you have come into contact with. It's a good idea to be the last to use the shower/bath in the morning or evening to make this easier on those you live with. You should use your own roll of toilet paper, hand towels, toothpaste and other supplies during your stay at home. If you share a kitchen with others, avoid using it while others are present. Take your meals back to your room to eat. It may be easier for someone else in your household to prepare your food and you avoid the kitchen area. If you have a dishwasher use it to clean and dry your used crockery and cutlery. If this is not possible, wash them using your usual washing up liquid and warm water and dry them thoroughly, remembering to use a separate tea towel. We understand that it will be difficult for some people to separate themselves from others at home. You should do your very best to follow this guidance and everyone in your household should regularly wash their hands, avoid touching their face and clean frequently touched surfaces. Don’t share dishes, drinking glasses, cups or eating utensils with other people in your home. After using these items, you should wash them thoroughly with soap and water, place them in the dishwasher for cleaning, or wash them in the sink. Use your own toothbrushes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. Do not share food and drinks. Someone in your home can prepare your food, but you should not prepare food for others. Wash your clothing and dishes separate to others in your home. Make sure you use separate towels from other people in your house, both for drying yourself after bathing or showering and for hand-hygiene purposes. Ask your family and whānau or the people you live with to use their own towels and keep them separate. There is currently no clinical evidence to suggest that the virus can be transmitted through breast milk. Infection can be spread to the baby in the same way as to anyone in close contact with you. The benefits of breastfeeding outweigh any potential risks of transmission of the virus through breast milk or by being in close contact with your child. If you wish to breastfeed, take precautions to limit the potential spread of COVID-19 to the baby by: washing your hands before touching the baby, breast pump or bottles avoiding coughing or sneezing on the baby while feeding at the breast cleaning any breast pump as recommended by the manufacturer after each use considering asking someone who is well to feed your expressed breast milk to the baby. If you're feeding with formula or expressed milk, sterilise the equipment carefully before each use. You should not share bottles or a breast pump with someone else. All people in New Zealand have been asked to stay at home. Don’t invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household, use the phone or other means of contact. You should not have visitors to your home, but it is okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. You should do your own laundry. Dirty laundry that has been in contact with a sick person can be washed with other people’s items. Do not shake dirty laundry. This minimises the possibility of dispersing the virus. It may be easier for someone else to fold and put away clean laundry items such as towels and tea towels. They can also provide a supply of laundry items to you. If you do not have a washing machine, wait until you’ve recovered and the isolation period has ended before taking your laundry to a laundrette. If you have read through these self-isolation guidelines and believe you have observed behaviour that is not appropriate and you are certain the individuals concerned should be self-isolating complete the Police online report. Police online reporting form (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Shopping safely --- Section Separator --- If you’re healthy and under 70, you should go to the supermarket instead of shopping online. This will leave delivery slots free for the people who need them most. Here are some simple tips to follow when you go to the supermarket: shops will be doing their best to limit the number of shoppers – helping you keep 2 metres away from others be kind to essential workers, and others you’re sharing the shop with come prepared with a list so you can get in and out as quickly as possible if at all possible only send one person from your household to do the whole shop. You may need to take young children with you if there is no carer available. keep 2 metres away from others, including staff – they need to keep safe too! use a contactless card if you can – avoid cash bag groceries away from others if you can only touch what you want to buy if you like, take a soapy towel in a small container to wipe down trolley or basket handles etc for any fresh produce it is always a good idea to rinse them off with clean water, although using soap, disinfectant or detergent is not recommended as this could affect the taste and may cause stomach upsets wipe down packaged goods with a soapy clean towel, then dry wash your hands before and after you shop. --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Staying at home and self-isolation --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 4 means you can only have in-person contact with the people in your household (also referred to as your bubble). You cannot have contact with any other people outside your household. If you have a confirmed COVID-19 case or symptoms, are a close contact of a case or have recently travelled overseas, refer to the specific guidance for those groups – you should be self-isolating. You should minimise trips outside your home, and stay at home as much as possible. As long as you're not unwell or have not recently returned from overseas, you can leave your house to: access essential services, like to buy groceries, or go to a bank or pharmacy. go for a walk, or exercise and enjoy nature – stick to your local area go to work if you are an essential worker visit or stay at another residence in your household group . If you do leave your house, you must keep a 2-metre distance from other people at all times. Police will be monitoring people and asking questions of people who are out and about during the Alert Level 4 lockdown to check what they are doing. Everyone in New Zealand will have access to essential services throughout Alert Level 4. How to shop safely Help accessing essential goods List of essential services (external link) If you have COVID-19, or you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell You cannot meet up with people outside your household group or bubble. Do not meet up with friends, family and whānau, or allow them to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household use the phone, video calls, messaging apps or other means of contact to check in and stay in touch. It’s okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. They need to leave these at the door and avoid contact with all household members. Not meeting up with others is about physical separation, but not social separation. Keep in touch with your wider group of friends, family and whānau over the phone or online. Consider setting up a regular time to chat to check in and keep in touch. Children look to adults for guidance on how to react to stressful events such as COVID-19. Parents, caregivers and whānau will have a particularly important part to play in reassuring children at this time. More information for parents and caregivers Alert Level 4 is about stopping movement and breaking the chain. Unfortunately, having close contact with anyone outside your household presents some risk. There are some small exemptions to who may be able to have different bubble arrangements: Children in shared custody arrangements can move between 2 households if they are in the same community. If you live alone, you can join up with another person living alone or a small household. You must live in the same neighbourhood and not interact with anyone else. You cannot join up with more than one household or bubble. Unsafe or life-threatening circumstances require you to move from your household. There is help available if you’re in this situation or concerned for someone else. Support available for family or sexual violence Take common-sense precautions to limit close contact with those you live with. Everybody you live with will also be staying at home, unless they work for an essential service. What to do if somebody you live with becomes unwell while self-isolating The Government is providing assistance to find suitable accommodation for people to stay in. This service is available to those who are unable to stay in their own homes, or are travellers visiting New Zealand and do not already have suitable accommodation arranged. There is a cost for temporary accommodation. The Government will work with each individual or household who uses the service on how to meet this cost. Temporary accommodation service (external link) Alert Level Four is about staying home and limiting travel. We need everyone to stop their movement to help us stop COVID-19. You can use your own personal transport, like a car or bike, if you need to access essential services. Domestic travel restrictions and exceptions International air travel and travel for those that are unwell Under Alert Level 4, everyone must stay at home except to pick up essential supplies, go for a walk or go to work if they’re an essential service worker. If you’re a vulnerable or high-risk person, it’s recommended you remain at home at all times, and seek support to get shopping and other essential things. At-risk people include those over 70, people with medical conditions, pregnant people and people without easy access to healthcare. Advice for vulnerable or high-risk people Allocate another person in your household to pick up supplies. If you live alone, ask friends or family and whānau to drop off anything you need – including food and medicine or other essential supplies – or you can order this online. Make sure any deliveries are left outside your home for you to collect. No one should come inside. If you get friends or family to deliver supplies to you, ask them to let you know when they have dropped it off, and they can remain nearby to ensure you have received it. Physical exercise is good for your wellbeing. You and your household can go outside once a day to get some exercise, but with care if you are an at-risk person. Keep it local, and only drive a short distance if there is nowhere suitable for you outside your door. Maintain a 2-metre distance from other people while you are outside. If it’s too busy to do so, then go home. It’s important not to touch any public surfaces while you are outside. Wash your hands well when you get home. Do not do anything that could risk an injury – we need to keep our emergency services free to manage Alert Level 4. A good solution is to look for online classes or use videos to help you get light exercise in your home. If you have a garden, it’s a good idea to do gardening, as you aren’t in close contact with others. Exercising safely and using your car If you live alone you can join up with another person living alone or a small household. You must live in the same neighbourhood and must not have close contact with anyone else. You cannot join up with more than one household or bubble. Do not meet up with other friends, family and whānau, or allow them to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not in your bubble, use the phone, video calls, messaging apps or other means of contact to check in and stay in touch. Essential workers must stay within their household bubble when they are not at work. Essential workers must maintain a high level of hygiene to keep others in their household safe, including washing their hands, clothes and surfaces regularly, especially after returning from work. Their workplace will also be required to put appropriate safety measures in place to ensure these people are safe at work. Most essential workers will not require Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Keeping yourself and others safe while undertaking essential work As always, anyone who is unwell should not be at work. You must stay at home if: you’re sick with COVID-19, COVID-19 symptoms, or are unwell generally you need to self-isolate, as per Ministry of Health guidelines, due to recent travel or close contact with someone confirmed to have COVID-19 you are caring for dependents who need to self-isolate, as per Ministry of Health guidelines. You may also wish to stay at home if: you, or someone you live with, meets the definition of an at-risk person, including those who are 70+, pregnant, taking certain medication, or receiving certain treatment. These people are advised to stay home at Alert Level 2 or higher you do not believe your workplace has adequate health and safety measures to minimise your risk of contracting COVID-19. The Government will make sure essential workers who take leave from work to comply with public health guidance will still receive income. The leave scheme for essential workers helps businesses to pay their workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19. Guidance for essential workers and essential businesses (external link) While everyone must stay at home under Alert Level 4, recent international arrivals are required to be in managed or strict self-isolation for 14 days. This means you cannot leave the place you are self-isolating to pick up essential supplies, if there’s no one else that can do it for you. You can go for a walk outside, as long as you avoid crowds and strictly manage 2-metre physical distancing. Recent arrivals who have symptoms when they come back into New Zealand are placed in a 14-day quarantine where they cannot leave their provided accommodation. Once your 14-day quarantine period is over, you must follow the other restrictions in place for all New Zealanders under Alert Level 4. Advice for imminent or recent arrivals Foreign nationals and tourists must stay at home or in their current accommodation, like everyone in New Zealand. Acceptable accommodation includes a private kitchen and bathroom that you can use by yourself or shared with a small group. This means you cannot stay at a campground, backpackers, houseboat or campervan which relies on using shared kitchen and bathroom facilities. The Government is providing assistance to those unable to find suitable accommodation. This service is available to those who are unable to stay in their own homes or are travellers visiting New Zealand and do not already have suitable accommodation arranged. There is a cost for temporary accommodation. The Government will work with each individual or household who uses the service on how to meet this cost. Temporary accommodation service (external link) We understand this is a challenging time, and you may wish to go home if you can. This is considered essential travel – as long as you have a valid ticket for an international flight. Domestic travel information for foreign nationals returning home (external link) While everyone must stay at home under Alert Level 4, people with COVID-19 symptoms must take extra precautions. If you have a confirmed COVID-19 case or symptoms, or if you’re feeling unwell, you must self-isolate and recover to stop the spread. Do not leave the house to pick up essential supplies or go for a walk. Ask someone else to pick up essential supplies on your behalf to make sure you have everything you need. They must leave this at the door and not come inside. Others in your household should avoid close contact with you, and maintain high levels of personal hygiene through regular cleaning and thorough hand-washing. Self-isolation advice if you’re feeling unwell If you’re a close contact of a symptomatic or confirmed COVID-19 case, you must take extra precautions and self-isolate using the guidance for symptomatic and confirmed cases to stop the spread of COVID-19. This means if someone else in your household has a confirmed COVID-19 case or suspected symptoms, you must also self-isolate. Ask someone else to pick up essential supplies on your behalf to make sure you have everything you need. They must leave this at the door and not come inside. Within your home, avoid the person who is sick and stay at least 2 metres away from them. Thoroughly clean shared surfaces and door handles, and wash your hands thoroughly and often to protect yourself. Self-isolation advice if you’re feeling unwell --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Vulnerable people --- Section Separator --- These guidelines are not a hard and fast rule and will be updated as and when further evidence becomes available. The key determinant of COVID-19 becoming a severe illness is the existence of underlying medical conditions, especially if these conditions are not well controlled. Relevant conditions include: serious respiratory disease such as chronic lung disease or moderate to severe asthma serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions many conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised, including cancer treatment, smoking-related illness, bone marrow or organ transplantation, haematologic neoplasms, immune deficiencies, poorly controlled HIV or AIDS, and prolonged use of corticosteroids and other immune weakening medications such as disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs many conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised, including cancer treatment, smoking-related illness, bone marrow or organ transplantation, haematologic neoplasms, immune deficiencies, poorly controlled HIV or AIDS, and prolonged use of corticosteroids and other immune weakening medications such as disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs severe obesity meaning a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher diabetes chronic kidney disease, people undergoing dialysis liver disease. Those over 70: Older people often have underlying health issues, including respiratory issues that make them more vulnerable to COVID-19. People undergoing a treatment for cancer and blood conditions: As treatments for cancer and blood conditions affect people’s immune systems, this makes them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Pregnant women: Health experts do not yet know if pregnant women are impacted by COVID-19 in the same way as other people. However, pregnant women experience changes in their bodies that may increase their risk from some infections. Residents of aged care facilities : Aged care facilities are susceptible to the rapid transmission of viruses like this. Residents are more susceptible to illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying health conditions. You need to take more precautions to protect yourself against all infections, including COVID-19. Avoid close contact with people with cold or flu-like illnesses. Cover coughs and sneezes with disposable tissues or clothing. Wash hands for at least 20 seconds with water and soap and dry them thoroughly: before eating or handling food after using the toilet after coughing, sneezing, blowing your nose or wiping children’s noses after caring for sick people. before eating or handling food after using the toilet after coughing, sneezing, blowing your nose or wiping children’s noses after caring for sick people. Additional measures that you and your whānau and friends can take include: stay at home, and ask others to pick up supplies for you. You just need to ask them to leave these at the door, rather than come in. Drop-offs at the door, rather than coming in, will protect vulnerable people from exposure to COVID-19. stay at least 2 metres away from people who are unwell. if you're unwell, avoid contact with someone who is immune-compromised. if your health care provider advises you to wear a mask when in public areas because you have a particularly vulnerable immune system, follow that advice. if you are taking immunosuppressive drugs we advise that you do not stop this medication without first consulting your GP or specialist. --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For everyone Waste collection --- Section Separator --- Continue using your kerbside waste collection service to dispose of waste. Please check your local council or private collector website and its social media platform regularly for updates on kerbside collection dates and recycling arrangements. Municipal landfills and most waste transfer stations will be open for essential services use only. Some waste transfer stations may allow limited access to the public. Please check your local council website for more information before visiting. Please check council websites for public recycling facility arrangements in your area. Local Government New Zealand lists website details of all councils (external link) While you are free to undertake gardening or other waste-generating activity at home during the Alert Level 4 period, keep any waste on-site until the Level 4 period has ended. You must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag before putting that bag into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, you should still put all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag before putting that bag into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. Please do not flush wet wipes down the toilet, as they can cause a breakdown of our wastewater (sewerage) system. Instead, put them into your household rubbish. Waste handling and kerbside collection workers are providing an essential service. They will get the appropriate protection equipment from their employers to ensure their personal safety. Please do not approach workers engaged in waste handling or collection services. Information about personal protective equipment for essential workers (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car About COVID-19 Looking after your mental wellbeing Staying at home and self-isolation Self-isolation advice if you're unwell Leaving your house Shopping safely Parents and caregivers Vulnerable people How to access healthcare Help accessing essential goods Renters and homeowners Influenza vaccine Events / gatherings Misinformation and scams Family violence and sexual violence prevention Funerals and tangi Financial support Animal welfare Waste collection Exercising safely and using your car For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For Māori
Home Help and advice For Māori Tikanga Māori and gatherings --- Section Separator --- All indoor and outdoor events cannot proceed while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. We are asking you to only spend time with people in your household and keep your distance from all others at all times. This will help us stop the spread of COVID-19 and protect our whānau, hapū and iwi, particularly those who are more vulnerable to illness such as our kaumātua – our koroua and kuia. Many groups including kapa haka groups, sports teams, whānau, hapu, iwi and Māori organisations and marae committees have cancelled all upcoming events. It is disappointing to have to cancel planned events, however, it is about doing what’s right to protect our people and our guests – manaaki tangata, otirā manaaki manuhiri hoki. Gathering together for tangihanga is not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. For Māori this means: no public funeral services no tangihanga at marae, funeral homes, churches and other venues no private whānau tangihanga at home. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. Guidelines for tangihanga during Alert Level 4 on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Guidance on funerals, and where to go for more information (external link) We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. This will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa. In practice, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū, alongside stopping kissing, hugging and all other forms of close physical contact with people outside of your household. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Read advice for public events and mass gatherings on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone For businesses and employees For travellers For community groups For Māori Tikanga Māori and gatherings Tikanga Māori and gatherings
Home Help and advice For travellers
Home Help and advice For travellers Citizens and residents overseas --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders overseas who are intending to return home are encouraged to do so as soon as possible. All New Zealand citizens, residents with valid travel conditions and their immediate family (partner or spouse, legal guardian and dependent children under the age of 24) can still come to New Zealand but must then self-isolate for 14 days. Information for imminent arrivals to New Zealand Countries around the world are closing their borders and imposing stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. New Zealanders overseas should contact their airlines and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. New Zealanders should also contact their travel agent or airline if they are travelling from, or transiting through, areas affected by border measures. New Zealanders seeking emergency consular assistance should call +64 99 20 20 20 (if overseas) or 0800 30 10 30 (if in New Zealand). Find more on the SafeTravel website (external link) All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to A$20,000 of their Australian super. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has details on how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone For businesses and employees For travellers Imminent or recent arrivals Cruise ships International travel Domestic travel Citizens and residents overseas Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Imminent or recent arrivals Cruise ships International travel Domestic travel Citizens and residents overseas Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For travellers Cruise ships --- Section Separator --- Cruise ships are banned from coming into New Zealand until at least 30 June 2020. All people in New Zealand are advised to avoid all non-essential overseas travel, including cruises. The virus can spread quickly onboard cruises due to the close contact between passengers. Some cruise ships have been put into quarantine, and countries have denied entry to ports, which can have significant consequences for travellers. --- Section Separator --- For everyone For businesses and employees For travellers Imminent or recent arrivals Cruise ships International travel Domestic travel Citizens and residents overseas Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Imminent or recent arrivals Cruise ships International travel Domestic travel Citizens and residents overseas Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For travellers Domestic travel --- Section Separator --- While we are in Alert Level 4, all domestic travel after midnight Friday 27 March will be permitted only for the transport of people undertaking essential services and the transport of freight. All air transport providers will ensure physical distancing is enforced during travel. Foreign nationals in New Zealand can now drive, take private or public land transport, or take domestic flights, in order to connect with commercial, or chartered, international flights to their home country. Scheduled domestic flights will be available from Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin and Nelson. Ferries are not available, and those needing to move between islands should take flights if available. There are several criteria that foreign nationals must meet in order to drive or take land transport to an international airport, or take a domestic flight within New Zealand while we are under Alert Level 4: You must hold a ticket for an international flight If you are taking a domestic flight, you must have a ticket booked for an international flight leaving Auckland or Christchurch scheduled to depart no more than 24 hours from the scheduled departure time of your connecting domestic flight You must have the right to transit through all countries on your itinerary You must be able to drive, take public or private land transport, or a taxi or ride-share service. You must travel by the most direct route possible. And you must meet the following public health criteria, and will be questioned before travelling: Are not diagnosed with COVID-19 (or have been declared as recovered by a medical doctor) Do not have symptoms consistent with COVID-19 Are not awaiting results for COVID19 testing Are not a close contact of a suspected/probable/confirmed case of COVID-19, and, Have not travelled internationally within the last 14 days. If you meet these criteria you can make a domestic flight booking, or drive or take private or public land transport to connect to your international flight. Any foreign national who does not meet those criteria should continue to shelter in place in their current location. If you fail to meet these criteria you will not be able to take your international flight and may have to go into quarantine or managed self-isolation. Foreign nationals who require more information or support should contact their country’s embassy or consulate. Chartered flights will be organised and ticketed through foreign missions. Information about embassies on the MFAT website (external link) In order to travel to an international airport you can use the following transport options: Self-drive (including a rental car) Be driven by a member of your current household group Use a taxi or ride-sharing service Take a chartered vehicle service Use land-based public transport. You must travel via the most direct route, and comply with physical distancing requirements throughout your journey. You should make every effort to return your rental vehicle to a representative of the company you hired from. If you are unable to do so you must leave your vehicle parked and secured in a safe area, and should return the keys to airport staff. If arriving by domestic flight, immediately collect your baggage (if not checked through) and proceed to the international terminal. You will be required to present your ticket and passport before you can enter the international terminal. If you arrive at an international airport without an international ticket for departure within the next 24 hours you will be refused entry and must immediately self-isolate in accordance with Alert Level 4 restrictions. You must check in for your flight as soon as it is open, and immediately proceed through security and immigration. --- Section Separator --- For everyone For businesses and employees For travellers Imminent or recent arrivals Cruise ships International travel Domestic travel Citizens and residents overseas Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Imminent or recent arrivals Cruise ships International travel Domestic travel Citizens and residents overseas Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For travellers Imminent or recent arrivals --- Section Separator --- Every passenger entering New Zealand will be screened for COVID-19 on arrival. Passengers will be disembarked in small groups and met by Government officials at the gate. When passengers disembark the plane health officials will discuss self-isolation and transport arrangements and answer any questions passengers may have. If passengers have a domestic transit flight, they will not be allowed to connect to that flight. If a passenger is symptomatic on arrival, they will be tested and placed in an approved isolation facility for 14 days. If a passenger is not symptomatic on arrival, they will be asked to explain their plan for self-isolation and transport arrangements to that place. If passengers have no suitable plan in place for self-isolation, they will be placed in local low-level quarantine accommodation, which has been approved for isolation for 14 days. They will be transported there directly from the airport. If passengers are placed in managed accommodation for the 14-day low-level quarantine isolation period, further information will be provided on what will happen after that, including planned transport through domestic flights. If passengers have a suitable self-isolation plan and transport arrangements, they will be escorted to their transport. They will also be checked on by police within 72 hours to ensure they are in self-isolation. A suitable plan must meet all of the following 9 criteria: You have not been diagnosed with COVID-19. You don’t have COVID-19 symptoms. You have not been tested for COVID-19 and are awaiting test results. You haven’t been in close contact with someone with suspected, probable or confirmed COVID-19 in the last 14 days. You have a suitable place to complete your self-isolation (private residence). You must not self-isolate with “at-risk people” (eg those over 70, those with medical conditions, pregnant women etc). More information on people at higher risk from COVID-19 Your self-isolation location (private residence) must be within 5 hours’ drive from the airport. You must reach your self-isolation location (private residence) within 12 hours of arriving in New Zealand. You will not use rental cars, lease cars, public transport (taxis, Uber, buses, trains, ferries, domestic flights etc) to travel to your self-isolation location (private residence). You must use a private car to take you directly to this self-isolation location – either: a self-drive private car already parked at the airport a private car driven by someone living at your intended self-isolation location, eg someone within your household group at the same address. (Note that only the driver should travel to the airport to pick you up – ie no passengers from your intended self-isolation destination.) a self-drive private car already parked at the airport a private car driven by someone living at your intended self-isolation location, eg someone within your household group at the same address. (Note that only the driver should travel to the airport to pick you up – ie no passengers from your intended self-isolation destination.) The Ministry of Health website has information for travellers arriving in New Zealand (external link) Private cars : Please travel home from the international airport using the most direct route: Acceptable : Private cars (self-drive or pick up by someone living at your intended self-isolation location) Not acceptable : Rental cars, lease cars, public transport (taxis, Uber, buses, trains, ferries, domestic flights etc). Hygiene : While moving through the airport and then driving home, please observe best hygiene practices, including covering your coughs and sneezes, washing your hands / using hand sanitiser; and avoiding touching your eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands. Physical distancing : You must have no face-to-face contact closer than 2 metres with anybody except those in your private car (ie those living at your intended self-isolation location). When does the 14 days start? If you have arrived in New Zealand by air travel from any country, you should self-isolate for 14 days from when you disembark in New Zealand. If you have arrived in New Zealand by sea travel from any country, you should self-isolate for 14 days from your date of departure from your last international port. Recent arrivals who are in self-isolation are to stay at home for their 14-day self-isolation period. They should not leave their house to exercise or to shop until they have completed their 14 days. They should get someone else to do their shopping for them, or order online. If you experience symptoms, such as fever, cough or difficulty breathing, please self-isolate and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Domestic flights to take healthy arrivals with a self-isolation plan to some regional destinations have now begun. The first flight took place on 31 March. These will be strictly for those who are currently in government-managed isolation in hotels in Auckland. Travel will be planned with those individuals directly to their end destination based on the information that they have provided. The All of Government Response is paying for the cost of the provided accommodation facilities for those requiring managed self-isolation or quarantine. If you’re not sure what assistance may be available, don’t know who to contact for help, call the free government helpline on 0800 779 997 (8am to 10pm, 7 days a week). For advice, support and general enquiries please call 0800 22 66 57 (8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday and 8am to 5pm, Saturday to Sunday). Find more information on the Immigration New Zealand website (external link) Or call Immigration New Zealand on 0508 225 288 (within New Zealand) or +64 9 952 1679 (outside New Zealand). --- Section Separator --- For everyone For businesses and employees For travellers Imminent or recent arrivals Cruise ships International travel Domestic travel Citizens and residents overseas Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Imminent or recent arrivals Cruise ships International travel Domestic travel Citizens and residents overseas Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For travellers International travel --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has made further travel restrictions to slow the spread of the COVID-19 virus. New Zealand's borders are closed for entry to almost all travellers. Exceptions can be made on a case-by-case basis by Immigration New Zealand for: humanitarian reasons health and other essential workers citizens of Samoa and Tonga for essential travel to New Zealand the holder of a visitor visa who is the partner or dependent of a temporary work or student visa holder, and who normally lives in New Zealand and is currently in New Zealand. Immigration New Zealand COVID-19 information (external link) No other foreign traveller can now enter New Zealand. New Zealand citizens and residents may return but will be subject to restrictions upon entry. Information for imminent or recent arrivals New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” – the highest level – regardless of destination. It is also urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to return home while commercial options remain available. There are extensive border restrictions in place around the world and increasingly limited transport options. New Zealanders are advised to register their details with SafeTravel, in order to receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) All travellers should consult the official website of the country they wish to enter or transit, or that country's diplomatic representative in their country of departure, before travelling. They should also contact their travel insurance provider. As the global situation changes, and more borders close, it will become harder to travel. Foreign nationals can use international air services to travel home. Foreign nationals in New Zealand can now take domestic flights in order to connect with commercial, or chartered, international flights to their home country. Criteria for taking a domestic flight to connect with an international flight Do not go to the airport unless you have a ticket. If you do not have ticket contact a travel agent or airline directly. If you are unable to secure a ticket please contact your country embassy. Read more on MBIE's website (external link) We are sympathetic to individuals who are currently in New Zealand and are unable to return to their home at the moment. Travellers with a temporary visa due to expire between 1 April and 9 July 2020 will have their visas extended to late September. Confirmation of extensions will be emailed to all visa holders. If you now wish to work while in New Zealand because your situation has changed, please ensure you have the correct visa. You can apply for a new work visa while you are in New Zealand. You can find out more information by calling 0508 558 855 . More information on Immigration New Zealand's website (external link) All international travellers must self-isolate for the duration of level 4. The Government is providing temporary accommodation to those required to self-isolate who are unable to do so in their own homes or are travellers visiting New Zealand and do not already have suitable self-isolation accommodation arranged. There is a cost for temporary accommodation and the Government will work with each individual or household who uses the service on how to meet this cost. Read more on the Ministry for Business, Innovation and Employment website (external link) If you require assistance, you can contact your embassy, high commission or consular representative. Find information about embassies on the MFAT website (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone For businesses and employees For travellers Imminent or recent arrivals Cruise ships International travel Domestic travel Citizens and residents overseas Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Imminent or recent arrivals Cruise ships International travel Domestic travel Citizens and residents overseas Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For travellers Public, private and active transport --- Section Separator --- Public transport is only available for people working in essential services, and for the general public to access essential services (eg for medical reasons or to get to the supermarket). Ferry services, road and rail will still be available for the transport of essential goods. Driving in private vehicles is allowed. FAQs are available from the New Zealand Transport Agency (external link) Using private vehicles for transport is allowed. You can travel if you’re accessing essential services or if you’re an essential worker travelling to, from or as part of your essential work. You should only travel in your car with people from your household. Personal walks and other active travel like cycling or scootering, is fine, provided you keep a 2-metre distance from anybody outside of your household. Stick to simple outdoor exercise and avoid areas where you can get injured or lost. It’s important the emergency services remain available to support the response to COVID-19. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. If you have any COVID-19 related concerns please call Healthline ( 0800 358 5453 ) for advice before you travel. To help limit the spread of any virus, those who are unwell should stay at home. If you’re unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that’s not possible, call Healthline for guidance first ( 0800 358 5453 ). Any questions relating to transport should go to the Ministry of Transport at essentialtransport@transport.govt.nz , or call 04 439 9000 . Ministry of Transport guidance on transport during Alert Level 4 (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone For businesses and employees For travellers Imminent or recent arrivals Cruise ships International travel Domestic travel Citizens and residents overseas Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Imminent or recent arrivals Cruise ships International travel Domestic travel Citizens and residents overseas Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services For community groups For Māori
Home Help and advice For travellers Taxi and ride-sharing services --- Section Separator --- If you have any COVID-19 related concerns call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice before you travel. To limit the spread of any virus, people who are unwell should stay at home. If you’re unwell and must travel, you must use private transport. If that’s not possible, call Healthline for guidance first. If you do not have COVID-19 related concerns you can use taxis and ride-sharing services, but only for essential purposes. Essential and emergency workers can continue to use taxis and ride-sharing services whilst carrying out essential services, such as getting to and from work. Everyone else can only use taxis and ride-sharing services for essential purposes. These include getting to the supermarket, pharmacy or vet, and to access routine medical services, not related to COVID-19, or for facilitating shared custody. In addition to general hygiene guidance, there are some specific requirements while travelling in a taxi or ride-share. Please also follow any requests from the driver. Personal hygiene : Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit a vehicle. When you get home you should also wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with water and soap and dry them thoroughly. Physical distancing : Physical distancing between the driver and passengers is important, even in smaller vehicles. Passengers must sit in the rear passenger seats only – you must not sit in the front passenger seat next to the driver. Sit as far as possible from the driver. If you are the sole passenger, sit in the rear left-hand side passenger seat, diagonally opposite the driver. The maximum number of passengers is the number of passenger seats in the back of the vehicle (in most cars there are typically 3 rear passenger seats). Who you can travel with : Apart from the driver, you must only travel in the same vehicle as people from the same isolation group (household group). Contact tracing : Please follow any requests for providing contact tracing information (if not already provided, for example electronically through an app or booking system). The Ministry of Transport has more details about transport restrictions on its website (external link) --- Section Separator --- For everyone For businesses and employees For travellers Imminent or recent arrivals Cruise ships International travel Domestic travel Citizens and residents overseas Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services Imminent or recent arrivals Cruise ships International travel Domestic travel Citizens and residents overseas Public, private and active transport Taxi and ride-sharing services For community groups For Māori
Home How we're uniting Cleaning surfaces --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. This means that when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. Now’s a good time to be extra vigilant when cleaning – clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces and objects, such as doorknobs. COVID-19 can remain on plastic and stainless steel surfaces for up to about three days and less than that for other types of surfaces. This will depend on the surface. If surfaces look visibly dirty, they should be cleaned first. It’s best to use a disinfectant. Use a disinfectant that is antiviral and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. More information about cleaning surfaces on thespinoff.co.nz website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Stay home Looking after others Physical distancing Cleaning surfaces
Home How we're uniting Cough or sneeze into your elbow --- Section Separator --- Coughing or sneezing into your elbow catches the droplets and stops them getting onto your hands. Put any used tissues in the bin or a bag immediately. Then wash your hands thoroughly. Then dry. Like the flu, COVID-19 can be transmitted from person to person. The scientific evidence confirms that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may generate droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. If other people touch these surfaces they may get sick. For most people facemasks are not recommended. Facemasks play an important role in clinical settings, such as hospitals. For people with symptoms of an acute respiratory infection, there may be benefit in wearing a facemask to reduce the spread of infection to other people. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Stay home Looking after others Physical distancing Cleaning surfaces
Home How we're uniting Looking after others --- Section Separator --- Kindness is an incredibly powerful way to show you are united against COVID-19. You can make a huge difference by: checking in on older relatives or vulnerable people over the phone, to make sure they have everything they need. talking to friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone to see how they are and if they need support. dropping essential supplies, like food or medications, to those at home. You can leave them at the door. These kinds of connections and offers of help will go a long way to getting others through COVID-19. ​Your emotional and mental wellbeing is important. How to look after your mental health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Stay home Looking after others Physical distancing Cleaning surfaces
Home How we're uniting Physical distancing --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as “social distancing”, is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. Outside of your home, or if you are sick, keep a 2-metre distance from people at all times. Physical distancing is an important way to unite against COVID-19. Information about self-isolation It’s best not to shake hands, kiss hello or hongi for now. Where you can, keep a bit of space. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori (including kawa), as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua – our koroua and kuia. In practice, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū, alongside stopping kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Stay home Looking after others Physical distancing Cleaning surfaces
Home How we're uniting Stay home --- Section Separator --- Everyone should stay at home. This is the best thing we can all do to stop the spread of COVID-19. This will save lives. You can leave your house to access essential services, like buying groceries, or going to a bank or pharmacy, or to go for a walk, exercise and enjoy nature. Vulnerable people in particular should stay at home and self-isolate. Print your stay at home plan [PDF, 1.5 MB] Learn more about staying at home and what you can and can’t do Read more about self-isolating at home on the Ministry of Health website (external link) If you have any of these symptoms, call your GP before you visit: a fever cough shortness of breath sneezing or a runny nose. If you do not have a GP, call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. You also need to: stay at home avoid close or prolonged contact with people you live with stop having visitors to your home stay off public transport. More information for self-isolating if you’re unwell --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Stay home Looking after others Physical distancing Cleaning surfaces
Home How we're uniting Wash your hands --- Section Separator --- Step 1: Wet hands with running water Step 2: Apply enough soap to cover wet hands Step 3: Scrub all surfaces of the hands – including the back of hands, between fingers and under nails – for at least 20 seconds Step 4: Rinse thoroughly with running water Step 5: Dry hands with a clean cloth, single-use towel or blow-drier. The same goes for hand sanitiser, use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. Rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. Wash your hands regularly, especially: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space, including public transport, markets and places of worship after touching surfaces outside of the home after touching money before, during and after caring for a sick or vulnerable person before and after eating. Always wash your hands: after using the toilet before and after eating after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets after changing babies’ nappies or helping children use the toilet when your hands are visibly dirty. No, you can use any temperature of water to wash your hands. Coldwater and warm water both kill germs and viruses – as long as you use soap. Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser, when done correctly, are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you are outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Stay home Looking after others Physical distancing Cleaning surfaces
06 Apr 2020 Watch daily media conferences with government officials and ministers. 05 Apr 2020 Watch daily media conference with government officials and ministers. 04 Apr 2020 The Director General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, has issued additional guidance on the rules during Alert Level 4. 04 Apr 2020 Watch daily media conferences with government officials and ministers. 03 Apr 2020 The Government will make changes to the Companies Act to help companies that are facing insolvency due to COVID-19. 03 Apr 2020 Watch daily media conferences with government officials and ministers. 02 Apr 2020 The Government will make sure essential workers who take leave from work to comply with public health guidance will continue to receive income. 02 Apr 2020 The Government has launched a WhatsApp channel to people find information about COVID-19. The channel is at covid19.govt.nz/whatsapp. 02 Apr 2020 Foreign nationals in New Zealand can now drive, or take domestic flights, in order to connect with commercial, or chartered, international flights to their home 02 Apr 2020 The Government held 2 media conferences on COVID-19 on 2 April. Watch them here. 1 (current) 2 3 4 5 6 »
Home Updates $100 million to redeploy workers --- Section Separator --- The Government has allocated $100 million to help redeploy workers affected by the economic impact of COVID-19, with the hard-hit region of Gisborne-Tairāwhiti to be the first helped, Economic Development Minister Phil Twyford, Forestry and Regional Economic Development Minister Shane Jones and Employment Minister Willie Jackson announced today. Find out more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Action on indoor gatherings and events to protect public health --- Section Separator --- The Government has reinforced its commitment to protecting the health of New Zealanders from COVID-19 through the cancellation of indoor events with more than 100 people. Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) For more information and guidance visit the Ministry of Health website (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Advice for families of essential workers or with shared custody agreements --- Section Separator --- Where possible, essential workers need to make their own arrangements for childcare, due to limited capacity. We know this will not be possible for everyone. Alternative arrangements have been made so essential workers can access childcare and continue to work. Find advice for essential workers making childcare arrangements Generally, children in the same communities can continue to go between their homes. Simple precautions should be taken to protect the health of parents and children. This includes parents from different households keeping a distance of more than 2 metres. More advice for families with shared custody Back to the news
Home Updates Advice for people living in apartments is available --- Section Separator --- Simple guidance is available for body corporates and people living in apartments to keep themselves and others safe. This information covers: Tips to keep a safe distance from others Hygiene advice Using communal areas Accepting deliveries Supporting vulnerable, elderly or self-isolating people in your building. Find out more about staying safe if you live in an apartment (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Backing our health services to combat COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The Government’s commitment to protecting New Zealanders’ health is being backed by an initial dedicated $500 million fund to strengthen our health services to fight and contain COVID-19. They have announced: Dedicated $500 million fund to protect New Zealanders’ health Nearly doubling resources for Public Health Units, specifically to increase capacity for contact tracing $32 million for extra intensive care capacity and equipment at hospitals $50 million in support for GPs and primary care, and $20 million to improve video conferencing and telehealth consultations $20 million for more Healthline capacity Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Business Finance Guarantee Scheme launched --- Section Separator --- The Government has launched a Business Finance Guarantee Scheme for small and medium-sized businesses, to protect jobs and support the economy. The Crown in partnership with participating approved banks will support targeted new loans (including increases to existing limits) to eligible businesses, as a response to difficulties caused by COVID-19. Under the scheme, businesses with annual revenue between $250,000 and $80 million can apply to their banks for loans up to $500,000, for up to 3 years. The scheme will offer a total of $6.25 billion in loans to New Zealand businesses. The Government is guaranteeing 80% of the risk, while the banks are covering the remaining 20%. A normal lending process will be followed by the banks, which will make the lending decisions. Further details can be found on the banks’ websites. Announcement of the opening of the scheme (external link) Business.govt.nz information about the Business Finance Guarantee Scheme (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Changes to how prescriptions are filled --- Section Separator --- To ensure everybody continues to have access to the prescription medication they need, PHARMAC are temporarily changing the amount pharmacists can dispense at any one time. Prescriptions will be limited for all funded medicines to a 1-month supply, or a 3-month supply for oral contraceptives. You will not have to visit your doctor or other prescriber more often. You will not have to pay any additional charges for filling additional repeat prescriptions, the $5 co-pay for the first time will cover you for your repeats. People will continue to be able to fill prescriptions at their local pharmacy, though you may have to visit more frequently than previously. Many pharmacies are operating delivery options for vulnerable customers. Read more on the Pharmac website (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Changes to rules around funerals and tangi --- Section Separator --- The Government has changed the rules to allow people from the same self-isolation bubble as the deceased go to the funeral home and cemetery with the deceased, provided they are in the same region. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to keep your physical distance. Mass gatherings for funerals and tangi are not permitted while New Zealand is at Alert Level 4. This applies to all deceased persons, regardless of when and where they died, or the cause of death. It includes gatherings at burials, cremations, memorial services, open or closed caskets or viewings, funeral wakes, processions or receptions and social gatherings, both indoors and outdoors. Read more about funerals and tangi (external link) Further guidance on tangihanga from the Ministry of Health (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Community groups and social sector services receive extra funding for essential services --- Section Separator --- Ensure people have access to the food and other goods they need to survive Provide a place for people to live Support disabled people to maintain critical wellbeing Keep families safe from harm and offer crisis support Back to the news
Home Updates Government media briefings (30 March 2020) --- Section Separator --- Two media briefings took place today from the All-of-Government COVID-19 National Response. You can watch both briefings below. The Prime Minister provided an update at 4pm: The Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield and Mike Bush, Commissioner of Police, provided an update at 1pm: Back to the news
Home Updates Daily COVID-19 media conference – 5 April --- Section Separator --- The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials was held at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Watch the media conference . Back to the news
Home Updates Daily COVID-19 media conferences – 1 April --- Section Separator --- There was a COVID-19 media conference from officials on 1 April at 1pm, followed by a media conference from the Prime Minister at 3pm. The speakers at 1pm were: Sarah Stuart-Black, Director of Civil Defence Emergency Management – update on COVID-19 national response Dr Caroline McElnay, Director of Public Health – health update. The Prime Minister held a media conference at 3pm. Back to the news
Home Updates Daily COVID-19 media conferences – 2 April --- Section Separator --- Watch the COVID-19 media conferences held at 1pm and 3pm on 2 April. Speakers at the 1pm conference: Mike Bush, Commissioner of Police – update on Covid-19 national response Dr Ashley Bloomfield,  Director-General of Health – health update Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and Finance Minister Grant Robertson held a media conference at 3pm. Back to the news
Home Updates Daily COVID-19 media conferences – 3 April --- Section Separator --- Watch the COVID-19 media conferences held by government officials and ministers on 3 April. Speakers at the 1pm conference: Sarah Stuart-Black, Director of Civil Defence Emergency Management – update on COVID-19 national response Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health – health update Finance Minister Grant Robertson held a media conference just after 3pm. Back to the news
Home Updates Daily COVID-19 media conferences – 31 March --- Section Separator --- There was a COVID-19 media conference from officials on 31 March at 1.30pm, followed by a one from the Prime Minister at 3pm. The speakers at 1.30pm were: Sarah Stuart-Black, Director of Civil Defence Emergency Management – COVID-19 national response and civil defence initiatives update Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health – health update. The Prime Minister held a media conference at 3pm. Back to the news
Home Updates Daily COVID-19 media conferences – 4 April --- Section Separator --- The daily COVID-19 media conference with officials started at 1pm. Speakers at the 1pm conference: Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health Dr Caroline McElnay, Director of Public Health Back to the news
Home Updates Daily COVID-19 media conferences – 6 April --- Section Separator --- Watch the COVID-19 media conferences held by government officials and ministers on 6 April 2020. Speakers at the 1pm conference: Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health – health update The Prime Minister held a media conference at 4pm. Back to the news
Home Updates Govt launches daily newsletter to unite against COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is today launching a daily email newsletter to give people a new way to stay up-to-date with COVID-19 information. The daily updates will include: The latest COVID-19 news Answers to frequently asked questions, eg advice for essential workers The latest resources, including translations, posters, and social media images Sign up to get the latest updates from Unite Against Covid-19 (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Domestic flights for foreign nationals returning home --- Section Separator --- Foreign nationals in New Zealand can now drive, take private or public land transport, or take domestic flights, in order to connect with commercial, or chartered, international flights to their home country. Scheduled domestic flights will be available from Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch, Dunedin and Nelson. Ferries are not available, and those needing to move between islands should take flights if available. There are several criteria that foreign nationals must meet in order to drive or take land transport to an international airport, or take a domestic flight within New Zealand while we are under Alert Level 4: You must hold a ticket for an international flight If you are taking a domestic flight, you must have a ticket booked for an international flight leaving Auckland or Christchurch scheduled to depart no more than 24 hours from the scheduled departure time of your connecting domestic flight You must have the right to transit through all countries on your itinerary You must be able to drive, take public or private land transport, or a taxi or ride-share service You must travel by the most direct route possible. And you must meet the following public health criteria, and will be questioned before travelling: Are not diagnosed with COVID-19 (or have been declared as recovered by a medical doctor) Do not have symptoms consistent with COVID-19 Are not awaiting results for COVID19 testing Are not a close contact of a suspected/probable/confirmed case of COVID-19, and, Have not travelled internationally within the last 14 days. If you meet these criteria you can make a domestic flight booking, or drive or take private or public land transport to connect to your international flight. Information on acceptable travel options to the airport Any foreign national who does not meet those criteria should continue to shelter in place in their current location. If you fail to meet these criteria you will not be able to take your international flight and may have to go into quarantine or managed self-isolation. Foreign nationals who require more information or support should contact their country’s embassy or consulate. Chartered flights will be organised and ticketed through foreign missions. Information about embassies on the MFAT website (external link) (external link) (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Eight new cases linked to overseas travel --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has eight new cases of COVID-19, all overseas travel related. There are four new cases in Auckland, one in Christchurch, two in Waikato and one in Invercargill. Read more (health.govt.nz) (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Further steps to protect New Zealanders’ jobs --- Section Separator --- The Government has made changes to the wage subsidy scheme to help keep businesses and workers connected during this unprecedented time. These changes apply from 4pm Friday 27 March. Businesses accessing the scheme must still undertake best endeavours to pay employees 80% of their pre-COVID income. Where that is not possible – in particular where a business has no activity whatsoever due to the shutdown and workers are not working any hours – they must pass on at least the whole value of the wage subsidy to each affected worker. Businesses must undertake to keep employees in employment for the period of the subsidy. The original sick leave scheme is being folded into this updated wage subsidy scheme. For essential workers, the Government is working on arrangements for those in essential work who require sick leave due to COVID-19. The wage subsidy is $585.80 a week for full-time workers (who worked 20 or more hours per week before COVID-19) and $350 a week for part-time workers (fewer than 20 hours). It will continue to be paid out in a lump sum covering the 12 weeks, meaning a $7,029.60 payment per full time worker. Read more about these changes on the Beehive website (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Government working to keep air freight moving --- Section Separator --- Minister of Transport Phil Twyford has today announced details of the Government’s support package to keep key air freight moving and ensure New Zealanders retain access to essential goods during the four-week level 4 lockdown. At this stage up to $330 million of the aviation support package will be allocated to: Ensuring air freight capacity is available on key routes for at least the next 6 months. Dealing with immediate risks and opportunities as they arise in the aviation sector. Read more at Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Govt announces aviation relief package --- Section Separator --- Transport Minister Phil Twyford today outlined the first tranche of the $600 million aviation sector relief package announced earlier this week as part of the Government’s $12.1 billion COVID-19 economic response. The initial part of the aviation package aims to secure the operators of New Zealand’s aviation security system, and includes: Financial support to airlines to pay passenger-based government charges for the next 6 months ($163 million) and to cover Airways related fees for the next six months ($37 million), Any fee rises or pricing reviews from agencies that charge fees at the border (Ministry for Primary Industries, Civil Aviation Authority, Aviation Security Service, Customs, Airways) are put on hold for 12 months, Financial support for Airways with in the face of declining revenue ($70 million). Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Govt backs RBNZ move to support economy with lower interest rates --- Section Separator --- The Government is backing the Reserve Bank’s latest action to support the economy by reducing longer-term interest rates, meaning lower costs for businesses and mortgage holders, and a lower currency to help our exporters. The Minister of Finance has signed a memorandum of understanding and a letter of indemnity with the Reserve Bank to enable it to undertake a programme of large scale purchases of New Zealand Government bonds on the secondary market up to a value of $30 billion over the next 12 months, to reduce interest rates and inject money into the economy. Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Govt begins largest ever Flu vaccine campaign early --- Section Separator --- This year’s flu vaccine campaign will be the biggest ever with 400,000 more vaccines available in 2020, compared with last year. The announcement was made this morning as Health Ministers David Clark and Julie Anne Genter launched a new COVID-19 public health campaign. Read more (beehive.govt.nz) (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Govt steps in to protect Air New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The Coalition Government has stepped in to protect Air New Zealand with a significant financial deal that protects essential routes and allows the company to keep operating. The Government and Air New Zealand have agreed a debt funding agreement through commercial 24-month loan facilities of up to $900 million*. The agreement also allows for the conversion of the loan to equity at the request of the Crown. Find out more on beehive.govt.nz (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Shopping for essentials guidance --- Section Separator --- Simple guidance is now available for people in New Zealand to keep themselves and others safe while doing their supermarket shop. The information covers: how to prepare so you can get in and out quickly tips to keep 2 metres away from other shoppers and supermarket staff hygiene tips for while you shop what to do with your groceries when you get home. Find out more about Shopping safely Back to the news
Home Updates Guidance for wearing protective equipment --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has released new guidance on protective equipment for people in essential jobs that may require physical or close contact. If you can ensure more than 2 metre distance from people with potential COVID-19 symptoms and any surfaces or items they may touch – facemasks and gloves are not recommended. If the nature of your job means you may touch surfaces or items also touched by people with potential COVID-19 symptoms, you may consider wearing gloves, however facemasks are still not recommended. If you may be unable to maintain more than 2 metre contact distance from people with potential COVID-19 symptoms, facemasks and gloves are recommended when this contact is likely to occur. In all situations, regular hand washing should continue. These recommendations are a guide only and workplace settings should consider their ability to maintain the 2 metre rule. In general, surgical/medical masks prevent the dispersal of droplets by an infected patient and the inhalation of droplets if within 2 metre of a coughing individual. If a customer or employee shows signs of being unwell such as a fever, cough or shortness of breath, they should be politely encouraged to leave as soon as possible and to seek help by calling their GP (doctor) or call Healthline (for free) on 0800 358 5453. More information on the use of facemasks and PPE (external link) PPE guidance for community care providers A4 poster [PDF, 201 KB] Putting on and taking off PPE A4 poster [PDF, 439 KB] PPE requirements for essential-non-health workers A4 poster [PDF, 181 KB] PPE for nasopharyngeal testing A4 poster [PDF, 179 KB] PPE for staff caring for positive patients in hospital A4 poster [PDF, 184 KB] Back to the news
Home Updates Health Notice gives guidance on Alert Level 4 rules --- Section Separator --- The Director General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, has issued a Health Notice that provides more guidance on the rules during Alert Level 4 to ensure its success and help move New Zealand out of lockdown as soon as possible. The notice sets out: Everyone in New Zealand is to be isolated or quarantined at their current place of residence except as permitted for essential personal movement. Exercise is to be done in an outdoor place that can be readily accessed from home and 2-metre physical distancing must be maintained. Recreation and exercise does not involve swimming, water-based activities (for example, surfing or boating), hunting, tramping, or other activities of a kind that expose participants to danger or may require search and rescue services. A child can leave the residence of one joint caregiver to visit or stay at the residence of another joint caregiver (and visit or stay at that residence) if there is a shared bubble arrangement. A person can leave their residence to visit or stay at another residence (and visit or stay at that residence) under a shared bubble arrangement if: One person lives alone in one, or both, of those residences; or Everyone in one of those residences is a vulnerable person. One person lives alone in one, or both, of those residences; or Everyone in one of those residences is a vulnerable person. The Ministry of Health and Police's joint media release (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Help for companies facing insolvency --- Section Separator --- The Government is changing the Companies Act to help companies that are facing insolvency due to COVID-19. The temporary changes will allow businesses affected by COVID-19 to place existing debts into hibernation until they are able to start trading normally again. The changes will also give temporary relief to companies facing financial deadlines, legal requirements or significant liquidity problems. These measures will cushion the companies from the economic impact of COVID-19 and protect jobs and incomes. The Government’s media release on these measures to support businesses (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Immigration update on temporary border closure --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has further strengthened travel restrictions, closing our border to almost all travellers from 23:59 on Thursday 19 March 2020 . All affected travellers must have checked in for their flight to New Zealand by this time. Exceptions can be made on a case-by-case basis by Immigration New Zealand for: humanitarian reasons health and other essential workers citizens of Samoa and Tonga for essential travel to New Zealand the holder of a visitor visa who is the partner or dependent of a temporary work or student visa holder and who normally lives in New Zealand and is currently in New Zealand. No other foreign traveller can enter New Zealand. Returning residents and citizens must isolate themselves for 14 days upon arrival. Read the full announcement here. (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Announcement of New Zealand's first death linked to COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister and Director-General of Health were both in attendance at Parliament to give today's All of Government COVID-19 National Response media briefing. Sadly, New Zealand had its first death linked to COVID-19 on the West Coast early this morning. The death was in a woman in her seventies who had initially been admitted four days ago with what was thought to be influenza complicated by a underlying chronic health condition. As we have seen around the world, COVID-19 can be a deadly disease – particularly for elderly people, and those with underlying pre-existing health issues. All of our thoughts are with the woman’s family and loved ones at this time. The briefing was held at 1pm on Sunday 29 March and you can replay the live stream below. Ministry of Health statement on New Zealand's first death linked to COVID-19 (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Major steps taken to protect New Zealanders from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The full Cabinet met this afternoon to make a range of significant decisions to further protect the health of people in New Zealand and reduce the threat of transmission of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Read more (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Media Release: Further guidance on essential services provided --- Section Separator --- Government Ministers met tonight and have provided further guidance on essential services that can continue to operate after midnight tomorrow. MBIE Deputy Chief Executive Paul Stocks said the purpose of escalating New Zealand’s COVID-19 alert level to 4 was to stop the virus in its tracks and reduce contact between people. “That’s why we need as many businesses as possible to close their premises now if our one shot at beating the virus is to be successful,” Mr Stocks said. “Only the businesses absolutely essential to ensure the necessities of life, like supermarkets and pharmacies, can stay open. If in doubt, the business premises should be closed. “So unfortunately the Warehouse needs to close its shops. Leaving them open to the general public creates too high a risk of further spreading the virus. Mr Stocks says “big box” retailers like Bunnings, Placemakers and Mitre 10 can stay open to trade customers for essential purposes only. “These retailers play an important part in the construction supply chain, but they cannot sell goods to the general public.” Businesses that are a critical part of the supply chain for essential services are also able to continue operating, but must do so in a way that is safe. “For example, if you make chemicals that are needed for our waste water plants, then we need you to keep operating at the minimum level required.” In addition, dairies can continue to operate, but must observe strict physical distancing rules for customers. “Dairies provide basic food items like bread and milk to people close to where they live, especially the elderly who may not be able to get to a supermarket. However, they will need to operate a strict ‘one-in one-out’ policy and they won’t be allowed to sell food prepared on the premises. “If any dairy breaks the rules, we will shut it down. If there is evidence of systemic abuse, we will remove them from the essential services list. “Food delivery services like Uber Eats and Deliver Easy pose a risk to human health. We cannot guarantee every kitchen operates strict food preparation controls or that everyone who works in a kitchen is well. “For clarity, every restaurant, café and bar must close all aspects of their operation, including delivery. “Delivery of food that is not pre-cooked will be allowed under strict health conditions. Many New Zealanders now receive their food via a delivery company and are in effect no different to a supermarket delivery option. “Most people are able to purchase alcohol at supermarkets. On that basis liquor stores are being treated as other non-essential retail outlets and must close. The only exception to this are Licensing Trust Areas where there is nowhere else to purchase alcohol. These stores must operate a ‘one-in one-out’ policy. “We are doing further work on online ordering of non-food products for home delivery to see if this type of retail can be conducted safely. We will update advice on this once further decisions are made. “COVID-19 alert level 4 is not business as usual and means there will be significant restrictions on what New Zealanders are able to purchase. However, these changes are essential to stop the spread of the virus. “We are ready to change the list if necessary. If we discover there are essential services that have not been made available we will react to that as we go.” Further details on essential services: Dairies to stay open, with “one-in one-out” rule Food delivery prohibited, except meals on wheels and delivery of food not pre-cooked Liquor stores closed, unless within a Licensing Trust Area and with “one-in one-out” rule Self-service laundries can stay open, 2 metre physical distancing to be enforced Retirement villages included as an essential service The Warehouse to close stores to the public Bunnings, Placemakers, Mitre 10 and other retailers essential to the supply chain for building and construction can stay open to trade customers for essential purposes only The Tiwai Point smelter exempt from closure NZ Steel shut down in a way that allows for production to recommence easily Pulp and paper plants to shut down non-essential elements in a way that allows for production to recommence easily while maintaining essential production Methanex to remain in production, but at a scale consistent with stability of gas supply. Correction: An earlier version stated, "Evidence overseas suggests the virus has been spread via poor food hygiene practices, so it’s a real risk we have to eliminate". This evidence is unclear. Back to the news
Home Updates Ministry of Education Update (18/03/20) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health’s Director-General has confirmed a case of COVID-19 in a Dunedin school following a student testing positive for coronavirus. Read more (education.govt.nz) (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Ministry of Health COVID-19 media update (17/03/20) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updated the media at 3:30pm Tuesday 17 March on the health response to COVID-19. Read more (Health.govt.nz) (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Ministry of Health livestream media update (19/03/20) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 1:00pm Thursday 19 March on the health response to COVID-19. Back to the news
Home Updates Ministry of Health livestream media update (20/03/20) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 1:00pm Friday 20 March on the health response to COVID-19. Back to the news
Home Updates Ministry of Health livestream media update (21/03/20) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 11:00am Saturday 21 March on the health response to COVID-19. Back to the news
Home Updates Ministry of Health livestream media update (22/03/2020) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media on the national COVID-19 response at 1pm today. Today we have 14 new cases of COVID-19 confirmed by laboratory test in in New Zealand. This brings the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in New Zealand to a total of 66 - note, this differs from the number listed in this stand up. The correct total is 66 confirmed cases. Back to the news
Home Updates Ministry of Health livestream media update (24/03/2020) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media on the national COVID-19 response at 1pm. The speakers were: All of Government Controller John Ombler – update on Covid-19 national response Dr Ashley Bloomfield, Director-General of Health – health update Iona Holsted, Secretary for Education – education update Paul Stocks, Deputy Chief Executive MBIE – essential services update Back to the news
Home Updates Ministry of Health COVID-19 media update (18/03/20) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 1:00pm Wednesday 18 March on the health response to COVID-19. Read more (Health.govt.nz) (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Mortgage holiday and business finance support schemes to cushion COVID impacts --- Section Separator --- The Government, retail banks and the Reserve Bank are today announcing a major financial support package for home owners and businesses affected by the economic impacts of COVID-19. The package will include a 6 month principal and interest payment holiday for mortgage holders and SME customers whose incomes have been affected by the economic disruption from COVID-19. Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates New COVID-19 modelling reports released --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has published a series of modelling reports which were commissioned to help understand the potential impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. These reports show the importance of the Level 4 lockdown and other government actions in slowing the spread of COVID-19. Read the COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Find links to updated data on our Latest data page Back to the news
Home Updates New process will help people get essential non-food items --- Section Separator --- Businesses can sell essential non-food consumer products, but they must do so in a way that protects the public and minimises the risk of COVID-19 spreading. They must notify MBIE and they must take all public appropriate public health measures. Essential products cover only those products that keep people warm, replace key household appliances, and maintain people’s health. They may include, for example, blankets, heaters, kitchenware and appliances, whiteware, computer equipment, and mobile phones. Businesses providing essential non-food consumer products must take online or phone orders only and deliver the orders in a contactless way. Storefronts must not be open, and the public should not be able to visit stores to select or collect goods. More information is available on our Essential Businesses page (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates New scheme helps essential workers take leave --- Section Separator --- The Government will make sure essential workers who take leave from work to comply with public health guidance will still receive income. Some essential businesses are still operating while losing business. The Government’s new leave scheme for essential workers helps those businesses to pay their workers who need to take leave due to COVID-19. The scheme means that essential workers can take leave and self-isolate without feeling pressure to come to work if they are vulnerable, sick or otherwise unable to work. Essential Workers Leave Payment Scheme Back to the news
Home Updates New Zealand temporarily closes diplomatic posts in Barbados and Myanmar due to COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has temporarily closed its High Commission in Bridgetown, Barbados and its Embassy in Yangon, Myanmar due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Foreign Minister Winston Peters says. “Due to the increasing scarcity of air links in and out of Bridgetown and Yangon, and the pressure COVID-19 is placing on local health systems, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has decided to temporarily withdraw New Zealand staff and their families from these locations for health and safety reasons,” said Mr Peters. Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern - statement to the nation (21/03/20) --- Section Separator --- Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has made a statement to the nation about the impact of COVID-19 on New Zealand. The government has announced a four-level Covid-19 alert system. COVID-19 alert levels [PDF, 50 KB] Alternative ways of working are encouraged. We all have to go about life very differently, including our work life. Employers should start alternative ways of working if possible – for example remote working, shift-based working, physical distancing within the workplace, staggered meal breaks and flexible leave arrangements. We need to be practical and sensible about this, but we do need to change our practices. If you are at high-risk, you are advised to stay at home regardless. This includes if you are over 70, have a compromised immune system or have underlying health conditions. Why? This is an important measure to slow down the spread of the disease. Slowing down the spread of the disease is vital to protect people’s health and to ensure our health system can cope and look after New Zealanders that become sick. Employers should allow employees to work from home if they can, and start other alternative ways of working: Move to measures like shift-based working, staggered meal breaks and flexible leave arrangements Encourage physical distancing in your workplace Stop employees coming to work if they are unwell Maintain high levels of hygiene in the workplace Advise your customers and suppliers not to come in if they are sick Support staff wellbeing, particularly those people with existing medical conditions Activate business continuity plans. There is a step-by-step guide to getting your plan sorted on the business.govt.nz website: here (external link) . Information for businesses about Government financial support for wage subsidies and leave related to COVID-19 is available on the Work and Income website: here (external link) Specific information for exporters and importers, and about travel, employment, health and safety is available on the business.govt.nz website: here (external link) . Guidance for businesses about mass gatherings: here (external link) . We are asking everyone to limit your movement around the country. This means cutting non-essential domestic travel. This will help us track and contain any spread of COVID-19. Physical distancing on public transport is critical to slowing the spread – it’s about keeping a safe distance from others. On public transport, try to stay at least 2 metres away from other passengers, and leave the seat next to you empty if you can. It is important to cough or sneeze into your elbow. Wash and dry your hands before and after your journey. Working from home and alternative ways of working will reduce the amount of people on public transport. Keep as much space between you and others. This means staying at least 2 metres away from others, where possible. Where possible, sit in a window seat in a row by yourself. This is about slowing down the spread of the disease. This is vital to protecting people’s health and ensuring our health system can cope and look after New Zealanders that become sick. We are asking that people not undertake any non-essential travel around New Zealand. If you need to fly, maintain social distancing and wash your hands before and after your flight. Yes, but remember to wash your hands for 20 seconds before and after you have been on public transport and cough or sneeze into your elbow. If there is space on your bus or train, try to stay at least 2 metres away from other passengers, and leave the seat next to you empty if you can. Who is at risk? Older people often have underlying health issues, including respiratory issues that make them more vulnerable to this virus. Underlying medical conditions can make you more vulnerable to this virus. In particular, people with respiratory conditions, such as COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease), heart conditions, high blood pressure, kidney problems and diabetes. As treatments for cancer and blood conditions effect people’s immune systems, this makes them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Health experts do not yet know if pregnant women are impacted by COVID-19 in the same way as other people. However, pregnant women experience changes in their bodies that may increase their risk from some infections. Aged care facilities are susceptible to rapid transmission of viruses like this. Residents are more susceptible to illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying health conditions. Migrant and refugee communities are more likely to have underlying health conditions and language barriers to healthcare, which may make them more vulnerable to the effects of this virus. Read the full announcement here. (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Rent increase freeze and more protection for tenants --- Section Separator --- The Government is supporting New Zealanders to stay in their rental properties with a six month freeze on residential rent increases and increased protection from having their tenancies terminated, says the Housing Minister Dr Megan Woods. This includes: Immediate freeze on rent increases Tenancies will not be terminated during the lock-down period, unless the parties agree, or in limited circumstances Tenants who had previously given notice can stay in their if they need to stay in the tenancy during the lock-down period Tenants will still be able to terminate their tenancy as normal, if they wish Tenancy termination measures apply for 3 months, and this may be extended if necessary. Read more on beehive.govt.nz (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates SafeTravel: Advice for New Zealanders considering overseas travel --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is now advising New Zealanders to avoid non-essential travel overseas due to the outbreak of COVID-19, associated health risks and travel restrictions. There may be a higher risk of contracting COVID-19 overseas. You may come in contact with more people than usual, including during long-haul flights and in crowded airports. Health care systems in some countries may come under strain and may not be as well-equipped as New Zealand’s or have the capacity to support foreigners. Read more (SafeTravel.govt.nz) (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates State of National Emergency declared to fight COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- A State of National Emergency has been declared across the country as the Government pulls out all the stops to curtail the spread of COVID-19. Read more at Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Watch the Prime Minister's update on rnz.co.nz (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Supporting Māori communities and businesses through --- Section Separator --- Associate Health and Whānau Ora Minister Peeni Henare has today announced the Government’s plan to support Māori communities and businesses in the face of COVID-19. “The welfare of our whanau is at the heart of our response to COVID-19 and we will reprioritising $10 million from the Māori Development vote to support this community outreach,” Māori Development Minister Hon Nanaia Mahuta said. The steps taken by Te Puni Kokiri include: a refocus of TPK Regional Hubs to support whānau, hapu and iwi. partnering with whānau, hapū, iwi and communities to give them the tools and resources they need to support a targeted response. providing infrastructure and technology support to our communities. supporting Māori health providers to enable their clinical expertise to reach whānau Māori and communities and assist in assessing the psychosocial needs within the community and co-ordinate with necessary tikanga related support. Read more on Beehive.govt.nz (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Tariffs removed for key medical and hygiene products --- Section Separator --- New Zealand will temporarily remove tariffs on all medical and hygiene imports needed for the COVID-19 response. All diagnostic reagents and testing kits used for COVID-19 testing and soap imports are the first products confirmed to have tariffs removed Officials are now considering what other products should have tariffs removed New Zealand, Singapore, Australia, Canada, Chile, Brunei and Myanmar recently announced our shared commitment to maintaining open and connected trade and supply chains. Read more about the changes on the Beehive website (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Update from Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern (23/03/20) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has moved up to COVID-19 Alert Level 3 – Restrict, for the next 48 hours before moving into Level 4 – Eliminate, as New Zealand escalates its response to stop the virus in its tracks, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced today. New Zealand moved up to COVID-19 Alert Level 3 – Restrict New Zealand to move up to COVID-19 Alert Level 4 – Eliminate, from 11:59 pm, 25 March 2020 2-staged approach to give people and businesses time to prepare Level 3, from Tuesday, 24 March: Non-essential businesses must close All events and gatherings must be cancelled Schools will only open for children of essential workers. They will close completely when we move to Level 4 Workplaces must implement alternative working with everyone who can to work from home No discretionary domestic air travel between regions Public transport for people undertaking essential services and transport of freight only Read more at Beehive.govt.nz (external link) You can watch the full announcement on our Facebook page (external link) . Read more about what the current Level means for you Find out about the COVID-19 Alert Levels COVID-19 alert levels table [PDF, 50 KB] Back to the news
Home Updates Update from Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern (24/03/20) --- Section Separator --- Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is speaking this afternoon after putting the country on alert yesterday for a lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19. Watch the livestream (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates Urgent tax measures for economic recovery --- Section Separator --- Urgent legislation has been passed to support the package of economic and social measures needed to recover from the impact of the coronavirus outbreak. The main measures contained in this Bill are: Restoring building depreciation Increasing the provisional tax threshold from $2,500 to $5,000 Allowing immediate low-value asset write-offs Bringing forward broader R&D refundability Allowing use of money interest to be waived Allowing greater information sharing Allowing more access to the in-work tax credit. Read more on Beehive Website (external link) Back to the news
Home Updates WhatsApp channel for COVID-19 information --- Section Separator --- The Government has launched a WhatsApp channel for people to find information about COVID-19. It's free to use and once you have signed up to the channel you will have access to up-to-date information including: latest news and updates latest case information COVID-19 symptoms what financial support is available travel advice what you need to do to unite against COVID-19. The channel is at covid19.govt.nz/whatsapp Media release from the Government (external link) Back to the news
02 Apr 2020 The Government has launched a Business Finance Guarantee Scheme for small and medium-sized businesses, to protect jobs and support the economy. 02 Apr 2020 Guidance is available for body corporates and people living in apartments to keep safe. This information covers hygiene, shared spaces and more. 01 Apr 2020 There was a COVID-19 media conference from officials on 1 April at 1pm, followed by a media conference from the Prime Minister at 3pm. 31 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health has published a series of modelling reports which were commissioned to help understand the potential impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. 31 Mar 2020 There was a COVID-19 media conference from officials on 31 March at 1.30pm, followed by one from the Prime Minister at 3pm. 31 Mar 2020 Simple guidance is now available for people in New Zealand to keep themselves and others safe while doing their supermarket shop. 31 Mar 2020 The Government has changed the rules to allow people from the same self-isolation bubble as the deceased go to the funeral home and cemetery with the... 30 Mar 2020 Businesses can sell essential non-food consumer products, provided they do so in a way that protects the public and minimises the risk of COVID-19 spreading. 30 Mar 2020 Two media briefings took place today from the All-of-Government COVID-19 National Response. You can watch both briefings below. 30 Mar 2020 New Zealand Government launches new way for people to keep up-to-date with how we're uniting against COVID-19. « 1 2 (current) 3 4 … 6 »
29 Mar 2020 The Prime Minister and Director-General of Health announced New Zealand's first death linked to COVID-19 at a media briefing at Parliament on Sunday 29 March. 28 Mar 2020 The Government has temporarily removed tariffs on all medical and hygiene imports needed for the COVID-19 response. 28 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health has released new guidance on protective equipment for people in essential jobs that may require physical or close contact. 27 Mar 2020 The Government has made changes to the wage subsidy scheme to help keep businesses and workers connected during this unprecedented time. 26 Mar 2020 To ensure everybody continues to have access to the prescription medication they need, PHARMAC are temporarily changing how pharmacists can fill prescriptions. 26 Mar 2020 Extra funding for community groups and social sector services to ensure they can provide essential support to communities. 25 Mar 2020 Urgent legislation has been passed to support the package of economic and social measures needed to recover from the impact of the coronavirus outbreak. 25 Mar 2020 Info about childcare arrangements for children of essential workers, and self-isolation advice for those with shared custody agreements 25 Mar 2020 The Government is supporting rental tenancies with 6 month freeze on residential rent increases and increased protection from having their tenancies terminated 25 Mar 2020 A State of National Emergency has been declared across the country as the Government pulls out all the stops to curtail the spread of COVID-19. « 1 2 3 (current) 4 5 6 »
24 Mar 2020 Government Ministers met tonight and have provided further guidance on essential services that can continue to operate after midnight tomorrow. MBIE Deputy Chief Executive Paul Stocks said... 24 Mar 2020 The Government, retail banks and the Reserve Bank are today announcing a major financial support package for home owners and businesses. 24 Mar 2020 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern is speaking this afternoon after putting the country on alert yesterday for a lockdown to combat the spread of Covid-19. 24 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media on the national COVID-19 response at 1pm. 24 Mar 2020 Minister Phil Twyford announced details of the support package to keep key air freight moving and ensure NZ retains access to essential goods during Level 4. 23 Mar 2020 We have moved to Alert Level 3, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern announced today. 23 Mar 2020 The Government is backing the Reserve Bank’s latest action to support the economy by reducing longer-term interest rates. 22 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media on the national COVID-19 response at 1pm, 22 March 2020 22 Mar 2020 The New Zealand Government has temporarily closed its High Commission in Bridgetown, Barbados and its Embassy in Yangon, Myanmar due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 22 Mar 2020 Minister Peeni Henare has today announced the Government’s plan to support Māori communities and businesses in the face of COVID-19. « 1 2 3 4 (current) 5 6 »
21 Mar 2020 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has made a statement to the nation about the impact of COVID-19 on New Zealand. The government has announced a four-level Covid-19 alert... 21 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 11:00am Saturday 21 March on the health response to COVID-19. 20 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 1:00pm Friday 20 March on the health response to COVID-19. 20 Mar 2020 The Coalition Government has stepped in to protect Air New Zealand with a significant financial deal that protects essential routes and allows the company to keep... 20 Mar 2020 The Govt has allocated $100 million to help redeploy workers affected by the economic impact of COVID-19, with Gisborne-Tairāwhiti to be first helped. 19 Mar 2020 The New Zealand Government has further strengthened travel restrictions, closing our border to almost all travellers from 23:59 on Thursday 19 March 2020. All affected travellers must have checked... 19 Mar 2020 The Government has reinforced its commitment to protecting the health of New Zealanders through the cancellation of indoor events with more than 100 people. 19 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 1:00pm Thursday 19 March on the health response to COVID-19. 19 Mar 2020 Transport Minister Phil Twyford outlined the first tranche of the $600 million aviation sector relief package which was announced earlier this week. 18 Mar 2020 New Zealand has eight new cases of COVID-19, all overseas travel related. « 1 3 4 5 (current) 6 »
18 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updates media at 1:00pm Wednesday 18 March on the health response to COVID-19. 18 Mar 2020 This year’s flu vaccine campaign will be the biggest ever with 400,000 more vaccines available in 2020, compared with last year. 18 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health’s Director-General has confirmed a case of COVID-19 in a Dunedin school following a student testing positive for coronavirus. 17 Mar 2020 Finance Minister Grant Robertson today outlined a $12.1 billion package to support New Zealanders. 17 Mar 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield updated the media at 3:30pm Tuesday 17 March on the health response to COVID-19. 17 Mar 2020 The New Zealand Government is advising New Zealanders to avoid non-essential travel overseas due to the outbreak of COVID-19. 17 Mar 2020 The Government’s commitment to protecting our health is being backed by an initial dedicated $500 million fund to strengthen our health services. 16 Mar 2020 The Government has advised public events or mass gatherings where 500 or more people are together in one place, at one time should be cancelled. 14 Mar 2020 The full Cabinet met this afternoon to make a range of significant decisions to further protect the health of New Zealanders. « 1 2 3 4 5 6 (current)
Home Privacy --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We don’t use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site (including in terms linking to the site). No need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this site. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first three parts of the IP address of the device the pages accessed on our site and the links clicked on the date and time the site was visited the referring site (if any) through which you clicked through to this site the operating system (for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX) on the device used the type of web browser used (for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox) other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) This site generates persistent session cookies (that is, they have an expiry date and are removed on that date) for the purpose of monitoring site usage. The cookies don’t collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. On 25 March 2020, the Government declared a state of national emergency. Along with a range of other special powers, a state of national emergency triggers the operation of the Civil Defence National Emergencies (Information Sharing) Code 2013 under the Privacy Act 1993. This gives agencies the authority to collect, use or disclose personal information during a state of national emergency. Certain criteria need to be met for agencies to be able to collect, use or disclose personal information. For example, it must be for purposes directly related to the emergency. The Privacy Commissioner on personal information during a state of national emergency (external link)
Home Resources and translations
Home Resources and translations Key documents and legislation --- Section Separator --- Legislation and key documents relating to COVID-19 and our government’s response to it. Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Social Security Act 2018 – Temporary Additional Support) Immediate Modification Order 2020 (external link) National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Section 70(1)(f) notice to all persons in New Zealand – 3 April 2020 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Section 70(1)(f) notice to arrivals – 31 March 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Section 70(1)(m) notice to close premises and forbidding congregation in outdoor places of amusement or recreation – 25 March 2020 [PDF, 3.1 MB] Section 70(1)(f) notice to arrivals – 16 March 2020 [PDF, 514 KB] Epidemic Preparedness (Epidemic Management – COVID-19 – Parole Act 2002 and Sentencing Act 2002) Notice 2020 – 30 March 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (Epidemic Management – COVID-19) Notice 2020 – 25 March 2020 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness (COVID-19) Notice 2020 – 25 March 2020 (external link) State of national emergency extended from 12:21pm on 2 April 2020 (external link) Direction to Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups and Group Controllers for the duration of the COVID-19 response and recovery – 29 March 2020 [PDF, 70 KB] State of national emergency declared at 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest data Resources Translations New Zealand Sign Language Key documents and legislation
Home Resources and translations Latest data --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health is publishing data about the cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. You can find data on: confirmed and probable cases of COVID-19 the number of people who have recovered how many people are (and have been) in hospital cases by district health board (DHB), and by age and gender. Data on COVID-19 in New Zealand on the Ministry of Health website (external link) The Ministry of Health has published a series of modelling reports which were commissioned to help understand the potential impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. These reports show the importance of the Level 4 lockdown and other government actions in slowing the spread of COVID-19. Read the COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest data Resources Translations New Zealand Sign Language Key documents and legislation
Home Resources and translations New Zealand Sign Language --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19 in one place. Get reliable information, updates, and answers to your FAQs. Learn the simple steps you can take in your everyday life to unite against the virus and slow its spread. --- Section Separator --- Latest data Resources Translations New Zealand Sign Language Key documents and legislation
Home Resources and translations Resources --- Section Separator --- These can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour – just adjust your printer settings. Be kind [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Poster asking people not to enter your building [PDF, 1.5 MB] Slow the spread A4 only [PDF, 1.5 MB] Slow the spread A3 or larger [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others in 6 steps [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] One at a time in our store please A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Welfare Factsheet (All-of-Government) [PDF, 963 KB] Self-isolation [PDF, 1.5 MB] COVID-19 Alert levels table [PDF, 50 KB] COVID-19 Event criteria guide [PDF, 55 KB] COVID-19 What you need to know [PDF, 174 KB] PPE guidance for community care providers A4 poster [PDF, 201 KB] Putting on and taking off PPE A4 poster [PDF, 439 KB] PPE requirements for essential-non-health workers A4 poster [PDF, 181 KB] PPE for nasopharyngeal testing A4 poster [PDF, 179 KB] PPE for staff caring for positive patients in hospital A4 poster [PDF, 184 KB] C COVIink) (external link) Unite against COVID-19 logo [JPG, 67 KB] Header Logo only [JPG, 44 KB] Header Stripes only [JPG, 36 KB] Header Wash hands icon [JPG, 46 KB] Header Wash hands text and icon [JPG, 60 KB] Header Stay home icon [JPG, 46 KB] Header Stay home text and icon [JPG, 59 KB] Header Be kind icon [JPG, 43 KB] Header Be kind text and icon [JPG, 48 KB] Header Self-isolation icon [JPG, 45 KB] Header Self-isolation text and icon [JPG, 53 KB] Email signature [PNG, 12 KB] Profile picture Be kind text and icon [JPG, 327 KB] Profile picture Unite text [JPG, 151 KB] Profile picture Mā tātau katoa text [JPG, 166 KB] Find resources in other languages Easy-read factsheets from the Ministry of Health (external link) This website is the fastest way to find help and advice about the COVID-19 situation in New Zealand. If you’re not sure what assistance may be available or don’t know who to contact for help, call the free government helpline on 0800 779 997 (8am to 10pm, 7 days a week). For advice, support and general enquiries, please call 0800 22 66 57 (8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday and 8am to 5pm, Saturday to Sunday). --- Section Separator --- Latest data Resources Translations New Zealand Sign Language Key documents and legislation
Home Terms of use --- Section Separator --- By viewing and using this site, you agree to these Terms of use. Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website hosted and operated by NZ Government. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to agree to these Terms of use. NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Email us for further information. Email: Pim@NCMC.govt.nz Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 International Licence. CC-BY 4.0 international licence terms (external link)
