The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. You may be interested in Quarantine-free travel with Australia Restrictions on travel to NZ from very high risk countries Travel declaration — travelling Australia to NZ Information for Pacific Peoples Information in other languages Information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori --- Section Separator --- 28 April 2021 media conference 23 April 2021 COVID-19 travel media conference 21 April 2021 media conference 15 April vaccine media panel 14 April 2021 media conference --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health is advising airlines that flights between Perth and New Zealand can resume as early as tomorrow following last night’s temporary pause. --- Section Separator --- You'll be offered the Pfizer vaccine if you're aged 16 or over — it doesn't matter what your visa or residency status is. Our COVID-19 vaccine rollout --- Section Separator --- If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we'll be. Find out when you can get a COVID-19 vaccine and how to book your vaccination appointments. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori New Zealand Sign Language عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Large Print and audio Easy Read
How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Access covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Who to contact if you want advice, have questions or want to give us feedback on the website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives. --- Section Separator --- How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Access covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Who to contact if you want advice, have questions or want to give us feedback on the website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives.
Home About this site Terms of use --- Section Separator --- Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. --- Section Separator --- Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Use this website for free from your mobile Contact and feedback Archive
Auckland joined the rest of New Zealand at Alert Level 1 at midday on Friday 12 March. What we all need to do at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we'll be. Find out when you can get a COVID-19 vaccine and how to book your vaccination appointments.
Home COVID-19 Alert System Regional advice Auckland --- Section Separator --- On 20 April, a worker at Auckland Airport returned a positive test for COVID-19. The Ministry of Health believes there is a clear link to the border as the source of the infection. This person works as a cleaner at Auckland International Airport, cleaning planes that have flown internationally from countries where COVID-19 is widespread. Locations of interest on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Check what you should do if you visited a location of interest at the same time as this case. Locations of interest for the Auckland April border-related cases are available on the Ministry of Health website. For contact tracing purposes, anyone who attended one of the locations listed during the relevant timeframes is considered to be a contact. Out of an abundance of caution, we are asking individuals to follow the instructions in the table if they visited these locations during the relevant times. Locations of interest in Auckland (external link) There are several types of ‘contacts’: close plus contacts close contacts casual plus contacts, and casual contacts. The Ministry of Health gives advice to all these types of contacts on what they need to do. Close contacts or close plus contacts are those who are likely to be at a higher risk of being infected. If you have been identified as a close contact or close plus contact of someone with COVID-19, the Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit will contact you. Advice and actions for close contacts or close plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual plus contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact. For casual plus contacts, their contact was where there is higher risk for transmission. In some specific higher-risk situations, the Ministry of Health may contact you if you are a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact or a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) What you need to do depends if you are a close plus contact, close contact, casual plus contact or a casual contact. When you need to get tested if you're a contact (external link) Frontline staff are working hard to ensure everyone who needs to be tested gets a test as soon as possible. Find a community testing centre in the Auckland region (external link) Encourage your employees to stay home if they’re sick and get a test. If a staff member has COVID-like symptoms, they should get tested and stay home until they get a negative result. You can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme to help you pay employees who have been advised to self-isolate and who cannot work from home. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) (external link) The COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment helps businesses to pay their employees who cannot work from home while they wait for a COVID-19 test result. This payment is also available to self-employed people. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) Learn more about financial support for businesses If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and get advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. You are also strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to keep your distance from other people. Who needs to wear face coverings These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. Turn on Bluetooth in the NZ COVID Tracer app and scan QR codes wherever you go. Using Bluetooth and scanning together keeps a private digital diary of where you have been and who you have been near, and means you will receive instant notifications about possible exposure to COVID-19. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet Auckland Regional Public Health Service translated information and resources about COVID-19 in a range of languages. View translated information about COVID-19 (external link) Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat COVID-19. Only share information from official sources. You can always find accurate and timely information on the Unite Against COVID-19 website www.covid19.govt.nz and the Ministry of Health website www.health.govt.nz (external link) Our social media channels are also updated frequently — follow Unite Against COVID-19 on Facebook www.facebook.com/UniteAgainstCOVID19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- On 20 April, a worker at Auckland Airport returned a positive test for COVID-19. The Ministry of Health believes there is a clear link to the border as the source of the infection. This person works as a cleaner at Auckland International Airport, cleaning planes that have flown internationally from countries where COVID-19 is widespread. Locations of interest on the Ministry of Health website (external link) Check what you should do if you visited a location of interest at the same time as this case. --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest for the Auckland April border-related cases are available on the Ministry of Health website. For contact tracing purposes, anyone who attended one of the locations listed during the relevant timeframes is considered to be a contact. Out of an abundance of caution, we are asking individuals to follow the instructions in the table if they visited these locations during the relevant times. Locations of interest in Auckland (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are several types of ‘contacts’: close plus contacts close contacts casual plus contacts, and casual contacts. The Ministry of Health gives advice to all these types of contacts on what they need to do. Close contacts or close plus contacts are those who are likely to be at a higher risk of being infected. If you have been identified as a close contact or close plus contact of someone with COVID-19, the Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit will contact you. Advice and actions for close contacts or close plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual plus contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact. For casual plus contacts, their contact was where there is higher risk for transmission. In some specific higher-risk situations, the Ministry of Health may contact you if you are a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual plus contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) Casual contacts are people who have had exposure to a case, but who do not meet the criteria of a close contact or a casual plus contact. Advice and actions for casual contacts at the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- What you need to do depends if you are a close plus contact, close contact, casual plus contact or a casual contact. When you need to get tested if you're a contact (external link) --- Section Separator --- Frontline staff are working hard to ensure everyone who needs to be tested gets a test as soon as possible. Find a community testing centre in the Auckland region (external link) --- Section Separator --- Encourage your employees to stay home if they’re sick and get a test. If a staff member has COVID-like symptoms, they should get tested and stay home until they get a negative result. You can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme to help you pay employees who have been advised to self-isolate and who cannot work from home. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) (external link) The COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment helps businesses to pay their employees who cannot work from home while they wait for a COVID-19 test result. This payment is also available to self-employed people. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) Learn more about financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and get advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick --- Section Separator --- You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. You are also strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to keep your distance from other people. Who needs to wear face coverings --- Section Separator --- These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- Turn on Bluetooth in the NZ COVID Tracer app and scan QR codes wherever you go. Using Bluetooth and scanning together keeps a private digital diary of where you have been and who you have been near, and means you will receive instant notifications about possible exposure to COVID-19. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- Auckland Regional Public Health Service translated information and resources about COVID-19 in a range of languages. View translated information about COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat COVID-19. Only share information from official sources. You can always find accurate and timely information on the Unite Against COVID-19 website www.covid19.govt.nz and the Ministry of Health website www.health.govt.nz (external link) Our social media channels are also updated frequently — follow Unite Against COVID-19 on Facebook www.facebook.com/UniteAgainstCOVID19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Auckland
Home Business, work and money Financial support Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances such as: your work status, for example, employer your situation, for example your business is unable to operate if your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be in place if there is an escalation to Alert Level 3 or 4 anywhere in New Zealand for 7 days or more. Wage subsidies support employers and self-employed people to keep paying employees and protect jobs affected by Alert Level changes. Information on the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) (external link) The COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment helps businesses directly affected when there’s an increase to Alert Level 2 or higher for a week or more. It helps to cover wages and fixed costs. Applications for the 14 February and 28 February Alert Level increases have now closed. Information about the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment (external link) The COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment helps businesses and self-employed people to pay their employees who cannot work from home while they wait for a COVID-19 test result. This includes employees on casual contracts. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. You can apply for it once for each eligible employee in any 30-day period. However, you can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells them to get another test. Your business should encourage employees to call Healthline or talk to their doctor if they are unwell. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons and cannot work from home. If your employees have been advised to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. You can also apply if you are self-employed. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If your employees need to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment is available. Your small or medium-sized business may be eligible for a Business Finance Guarantee Scheme loan. These loans can support operating cashflow and capital assets and projects related to, responding to or for recovering from the impacts of COVID-19. Participating lenders can provide to eligible businesses: new loans increased limits to existing loans revolving credit facilities. Participating banks and non-banks, for example building societies, can lend outside of their normal lending criteria. If you borrow from a bank, you could borrow up to $5 million for a term of up to 5 years. If you borrow from a non-bank, you could borrow up to $3 million for a term of up to 5 years. The scheme is supported by the Government, which takes up to 80% of the scheme loan’s default risk. No personal guarantee is required. Participating banks and non-banks make all lending decisions. You must still pay the loan back, with interest, as you would usually. Find out if your business is eligible, and how to apply (external link) Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: greater flexibility for taxpayers in respect of statutory tax deadlines changes to the tax loss continuity rules a tax loss carry-back scheme measures to support commercial tenants and landlords further business consultancy support. Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) Organisations and small-to-medium businesses, including sole traders and the self-employed, may be eligible for a one-off loan with a term of 5 years if they have been adversely affected by COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme provides assistance to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. The maximum amount that can be borrowed is $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee and only one amount can be drawn down. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within 2 years. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Applications are open until 31 December 2023. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) Support will be available to employers of first-year and second-year apprentices in a Tertiary Education Commission-approved New Zealand Apprenticeship or Managed Apprenticeship programme. The amount that can be claimed will vary depending on when an apprentice started their training programme and when they reach 24 months. Employers can claim: $1,000 a month for eligible apprentices in the first 12 months of their training programme $500 a month in the second 12 months of their training programme. Funding will be available until April 2022. Employers are required to top up the funding they receive to ensure their apprentices receive at least the minimum or training wage they are legally entitled to. Apprenticeship Boost initiative, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances such as: your work status, for example, employer your situation, for example your business is unable to operate if your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be in place if there is an escalation to Alert Level 3 or 4 anywhere in New Zealand for 7 days or more. Wage subsidies support employers and self-employed people to keep paying employees and protect jobs affected by Alert Level changes. Information on the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment helps businesses directly affected when there’s an increase to Alert Level 2 or higher for a week or more. It helps to cover wages and fixed costs. Applications for the 14 February and 28 February Alert Level increases have now closed. Information about the COVID-19 Resurgence Support Payment (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment helps businesses and self-employed people to pay their employees who cannot work from home while they wait for a COVID-19 test result. This includes employees on casual contracts. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. You can apply for it once for each eligible employee in any 30-day period. However, you can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells them to get another test. Your business should encourage employees to call Healthline or talk to their doctor if they are unwell. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons and cannot work from home. --- Section Separator --- If your employees have been advised to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. You can also apply if you are self-employed. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If your employees need to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment is available. --- Section Separator --- Your small or medium-sized business may be eligible for a Business Finance Guarantee Scheme loan. These loans can support operating cashflow and capital assets and projects related to, responding to or for recovering from the impacts of COVID-19. Participating lenders can provide to eligible businesses: new loans increased limits to existing loans revolving credit facilities. Participating banks and non-banks, for example building societies, can lend outside of their normal lending criteria. If you borrow from a bank, you could borrow up to $5 million for a term of up to 5 years. If you borrow from a non-bank, you could borrow up to $3 million for a term of up to 5 years. The scheme is supported by the Government, which takes up to 80% of the scheme loan’s default risk. No personal guarantee is required. Participating banks and non-banks make all lending decisions. You must still pay the loan back, with interest, as you would usually. Find out if your business is eligible, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: greater flexibility for taxpayers in respect of statutory tax deadlines changes to the tax loss continuity rules a tax loss carry-back scheme measures to support commercial tenants and landlords further business consultancy support. Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) --- Section Separator --- Organisations and small-to-medium businesses, including sole traders and the self-employed, may be eligible for a one-off loan with a term of 5 years if they have been adversely affected by COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme provides assistance to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. The maximum amount that can be borrowed is $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee and only one amount can be drawn down. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within 2 years. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Applications are open until 31 December 2023. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) --- Section Separator --- Support will be available to employers of first-year and second-year apprentices in a Tertiary Education Commission-approved New Zealand Apprenticeship or Managed Apprenticeship programme. The amount that can be claimed will vary depending on when an apprentice started their training programme and when they reach 24 months. Employers can claim: $1,000 a month for eligible apprentices in the first 12 months of their training programme $500 a month in the second 12 months of their training programme. Funding will be available until April 2022. Employers are required to top up the funding they receive to ensure their apprentices receive at least the minimum or training wage they are legally entitled to. Apprenticeship Boost initiative, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for individuals and whānau Financial support for businesses Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ Financial support for communities and clubs If you need help with accommodation
Home Business, work and money Financial support Financial support for individuals and whānau --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: your work status, for example job loss due to COVID-19 your situation, for example your business is unable to operate whether your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent or mortgage, board, emergency housing, moving house repairs or replacing appliances emergency dental treatment emergency medical treatment water tank refill. Financial support, eligibility criteria and how to apply at the Work at Income website (external link) You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you're worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. There are a range of options available to help you through this time. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with tips, guides and tools support online or you can email office@sorted.org.nz Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you're worried about the costs of your power bills, talk to your retailer about other options such as moving to a more affordable plan. If you're vulnerable, in financial hardship or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be in place if there is an escalation to Alert Level 3 or 4 anywhere in New Zealand for 7 days or more. Wage subsidies support employers and self-employed people to keep paying employees and protect jobs affected by Alert Level changes. Information on the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) If you’re staying at home because you’re waiting on a COVID-19 test result and you cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. Your employer can apply for it once for you in any 30-day period. However, they can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells you to get another test. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons, and cannot work from home. If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. As the impact of COVID-19 increases, experiencing job loss could be a reality for many. If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) If you're renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Get help with housing costs from Work and Income (external link) There was a freeze on rent increases which meant landlords could not increase rent for their rental properties. The freeze on rent increases ended on 25 September 2020. Information for landlords and tenants at the Tenancy Services website (external link) The mortgage repayment deferral scheme meant New Zealand’s retail banks were able to defer repayments for some mortgages. This scheme ended on 31 March 2021. If you need advice about your mortgage repayments, talk to your bank about your options. All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) Support is available for anyone who is a Close and Casual contact of a COVID-19 case. Work and Income provides a range of financial support to help workers affected by COVID-19 as Alert Levels change. Find out how Work and Income may be able to help you, even if you’re working. Download a PDF for information about support for Close and Casual Contacts of a COVID-19 case [PDF, 441 KB] --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: your work status, for example job loss due to COVID-19 your situation, for example your business is unable to operate whether your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent or mortgage, board, emergency housing, moving house repairs or replacing appliances emergency dental treatment emergency medical treatment water tank refill. Financial support, eligibility criteria and how to apply at the Work at Income website (external link) You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you're worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. There are a range of options available to help you through this time. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with tips, guides and tools support online or you can email office@sorted.org.nz Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you're worried about the costs of your power bills, talk to your retailer about other options such as moving to a more affordable plan. If you're vulnerable, in financial hardship or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Wage Subsidy Scheme will be in place if there is an escalation to Alert Level 3 or 4 anywhere in New Zealand for 7 days or more. Wage subsidies support employers and self-employed people to keep paying employees and protect jobs affected by Alert Level changes. Information on the Wage Subsidy March 2021 (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re staying at home because you’re waiting on a COVID-19 test result and you cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. This payment is also available to self-employed people. The payment helps businesses keep paying employees who: cannot work from home, and need to stay at home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result. This must be in line with public health guidance (external link) A one-off payment of $350 is available for each employee. Your employer can apply for it once for you in any 30-day period. However, they can apply for it again if a health official or doctor tells you to get another test. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment, and how to apply (external link) The COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme is still available for businesses to help pay employees who need to self-isolate for other reasons, and cannot work from home. --- Section Separator --- If you need to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer (or you if you are self-employed) can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. This includes employees on casual contracts. The Leave Support Scheme is paid at a flat rate of: $585.80 a week for full-time workers who were working 20 hours or more a week $350 a week for part-time workers who were working less than 20 hours a week. Employers, including self-employed people, and employees need to meet certain criteria to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, and how to apply (external link) If you need to miss work to stay home while waiting on a COVID-19 test result and cannot work from home, your employer could apply for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment. --- Section Separator --- As the impact of COVID-19 increases, experiencing job loss could be a reality for many. If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you're renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Get help with housing costs from Work and Income (external link) There was a freeze on rent increases which meant landlords could not increase rent for their rental properties. The freeze on rent increases ended on 25 September 2020. Information for landlords and tenants at the Tenancy Services website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The mortgage repayment deferral scheme meant New Zealand’s retail banks were able to defer repayments for some mortgages. This scheme ended on 31 March 2021. If you need advice about your mortgage repayments, talk to your bank about your options. --- Section Separator --- All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Support is available for anyone who is a Close and Casual contact of a COVID-19 case. Work and Income provides a range of financial support to help workers affected by COVID-19 as Alert Levels change. Find out how Work and Income may be able to help you, even if you’re working. Download a PDF for information about support for Close and Casual Contacts of a COVID-19 case [PDF, 441 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for individuals and whānau Financial support for businesses Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ Financial support for communities and clubs If you need help with accommodation
Home Everyday life Information for Māori You might be interested in: Information in te reo Māori Guidance for marae Physical distancing — including hongi and harirū Funerals and tangihanga Te Whare Tapa Whā --- Section Separator --- Tāmaki Makaurau is at Alert Level 1 along with the rest of Aotearoa. Maintaining our tikanga hauora and adhering to our relevant Alert Levels will help break any potential chains of transmission and prevent the spread of  COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Whānau can go to work and school if they aren’t māuiui. Kura, kōhanga and puna reo are open for our tamariki. There are no restrictions on hui and gatherings. Face coverings must be worn on buses, trains and domestic flights. Learn more about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 whānau and friends can connect, but restrictions are still in place to manage the risk and spread of COVID-19. The general guidance for no physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place — for those who don’t live together and aren’t whānau or close friends. Maintain physical distancing, including harirū and hongi Gatherings and events Funerals and tangihanga These guidelines were developed to clarify public health measures and support marae to make their own decisions for the safety and wellbeing of their whānau, hapū, and iwi . We acknowledge that many iwi have already put together COVID-19 response plans for their hapū and marae. Marae should contact their tribal authority in the first instance if they have further questions. Guidance for marae --- Section Separator --- Iwi, hapū and Māori organisations have led decision-making in our communities to support and ensure whānau are safe and protected from any risk of COVID-19 transmission. This has included adjusting tikanga and cultural practices such as suspending harirū and hongi, kissing and hugging to maintain physical distance, and using tools such as video conferencing to support hui, tangihanga and wānanga. --- Section Separator --- If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. Scan QR codes everywhere you go, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. The more we scan the safer we'll be. Find out when you can get a COVID-19 vaccine and how to book your vaccination appointments.
Home Everyday life Life at home Homeowners --- Section Separator --- The mortgage repayment deferral scheme meant New Zealand’s retail banks were able to defer repayments for some mortgages. This scheme ended on 31 March 2021. If you need advice about your mortgage repayments, talk to your bank about your options. People living in apartment buildings may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for body corporates to support people living in apartments: Close all communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools and other communal gathering areas. Ensure regular and robust cleaning, with particular emphasis on disinfecting surfaces in common areas, such as door handles, lift buttons and stair rails. Place hand sanitisers at all building entrances, with notices asking people to use as they enter or exit the building. If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) Place notices in the entrance foyer and by the lifts to advise people about this advice: Only use the lifts one at a time, or with their household group. Press lift buttons and touch door handles or stair rails with elbows or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. Make sure all deliveries are left at the front door of the apartment building for collection. Post notices reminding people that they have to follow the government guidelines, in particular, maintaining a distance of at least 2 metres from other people, and washing hands frequently. Ask owners renting out their apartments to ensure their tenants, including any commercial tenants, know all the body corporate’s rules. Find out if there are residents who are vulnerable, over 70 years old or self-isolating in your building, and ask if there are other residents who could volunteer to support these people. For example, by collecting prescriptions or groceries on their behalf. We recommend any goods be left at their apartment door and all physical contact avoided. More information for tenants and landlords is available on the Tenancy Services website (external link) At Alert Level 3 you can move house. Travelling into and out of regions at different Alert Levels to move house is allowed, but there are restrictions. If you do move, you legally must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, we recommend signing tenancy agreements digitally, and we recommend moving house without any contact with other people. Regional travel You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but we recommend they maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like washing their hands and cleaning surfaces. You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend that settlement is delayed until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or less. You can look for properties to buy, but we recommend doing this without face-to-face contact with real estate agents, owners or existing tenants. --- Section Separator --- The mortgage repayment deferral scheme meant New Zealand’s retail banks were able to defer repayments for some mortgages. This scheme ended on 31 March 2021. If you need advice about your mortgage repayments, talk to your bank about your options. --- Section Separator --- People living in apartment buildings may come into contact with contaminated surfaces in communal areas, or come across other residents who may have COVID-19. Simple guidance is now available for body corporates to support people living in apartments: Close all communal facilities such as gyms, swimming pools and other communal gathering areas. Ensure regular and robust cleaning, with particular emphasis on disinfecting surfaces in common areas, such as door handles, lift buttons and stair rails. Place hand sanitisers at all building entrances, with notices asking people to use as they enter or exit the building. If you’re a landlord, there are temporary rules for body corporate meetings. The Unit Title Services website has more information (external link) Place notices in the entrance foyer and by the lifts to advise people about this advice: Only use the lifts one at a time, or with their household group. Press lift buttons and touch door handles or stair rails with elbows or knuckles instead of fingers, or use disinfectant hand wipes after contact. Make sure all deliveries are left at the front door of the apartment building for collection. Post notices reminding people that they have to follow the government guidelines, in particular, maintaining a distance of at least 2 metres from other people, and washing hands frequently. Ask owners renting out their apartments to ensure their tenants, including any commercial tenants, know all the body corporate’s rules. Find out if there are residents who are vulnerable, over 70 years old or self-isolating in your building, and ask if there are other residents who could volunteer to support these people. For example, by collecting prescriptions or groceries on their behalf. We recommend any goods be left at their apartment door and all physical contact avoided. More information for tenants and landlords is available on the Tenancy Services website (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 you can move house. Travelling into and out of regions at different Alert Levels to move house is allowed, but there are restrictions. If you do move, you legally must take great care not to violate any Alert Level 3 rules. For example, we recommend signing tenancy agreements digitally, and we recommend moving house without any contact with other people. Regional travel You can have a tradesperson come to your house to do required maintenance. This includes electricians, plumbers and builders. Tradespeople and other workers do not need to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) when they come into your house, but we recommend they maintain physical distancing and undertake other hygiene measures like washing their hands and cleaning surfaces. --- Section Separator --- You can buy or sell a property at Alert Level 3, but we recommend that settlement is delayed until after the Alert Level is reduced to 2 or less. You can look for properties to buy, but we recommend doing this without face-to-face contact with real estate agents, owners or existing tenants. --- Section Separator --- Waste collection Animal welfare Renters and landlords Homeowners If you need help with accommodation
Information and guidance on COVID-19 symptoms, getting tested and what happens if you test positive. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Advice on getting medical advice, flu vaccinations, health services and getting medical care if your visa has expired. How you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. What to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. If there is an emergency — such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, or fire — the usual emergency guidelines need to be followed. --- Section Separator --- Information and guidance on COVID-19 symptoms, getting tested and what happens if you test positive. The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. Advice on getting medical advice, flu vaccinations, health services and getting medical care if your visa has expired. How you can exercise safely and be safe doing other recreational activities. These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. How to look after your mental wellbeing, keep children safe and reassured, free resources and where to go for help. What to do when someone dies and how to organise their funeral or tangihanga. Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. If there is an emergency — such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, or fire — the usual emergency guidelines need to be followed.
The Pfizer vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. It will help to protect New Zealand from COVID-19. You might be interested in Vaccination appointments Pfizer vaccine Side effects Vaccination and your job If you're getting a flu or measles vaccination If you're pregnant or breastfeeding Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Find out when you can get a COVID-19 vaccine and how to book your vaccination appointments. We’re rolling out the COVID-19 vaccine in stages. We’ve created 4 groups that everyone in the country aged 16 and over will fall under. Download and share useful information about getting a COVID-19 vaccination and the vaccine rollout in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Last updated 28 April 2021 How many people have been vaccinated in New Zealand so far. 172,564 First dose administered 172,564 First dose administered 60,024 Second dose administered 60,024 Second dose administered --- Section Separator --- You’ll be offered the Pfizer vaccine if you’re aged 16 or over — it doesn’t matter what your visa or residency status is. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines have been developed quickly, but still went through all the usual safety checks. --- Section Separator --- Ka kite, COVID — we're getting immunity Ministers Hipkins and Verrall talk about getting vaccinated — 31 March Dr Ashley Bloomfield on the safety standards of the Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine Dr Ian Town explains how the mRNA vaccine works Aotearoa's first border worker is vaccinated against COVID-19 | Ministry of Health NZ Dr Ashley Bloomfield and MedSafe's Chris James talk about vaccine approvals COVID-19 vaccines: A kōrero with Dr Helen Petousis-Harris
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines Apply for an early vaccination --- Section Separator --- You can apply for an early vaccine on compassionate grounds if you need to travel overseas to: access critical medical care that is not available in New Zealand for yourself or your dependant visit an immediate family member who is dying provide critical care and protection for a dependant (for example, your child). You may be eligible for an early vaccine if you need to travel overseas to: protect the safety and security of New Zealand’s right to govern itself be involved in Government-approved humanitarian efforts as part of New Zealand’s commitments to foreign aid, international disaster responses, or supporting Pacific and Realm countries to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic participate in major international events where travel is necessary to represent New Zealand be involved in nationally significant trade negotiations. The relevant agency or association will apply on your behalf. If you are travelling overseas before 31 August , you can apply online for an early vaccine through the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an early vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can apply for an early vaccine on compassionate grounds if you need to travel overseas to: access critical medical care that is not available in New Zealand for yourself or your dependant visit an immediate family member who is dying provide critical care and protection for a dependant (for example, your child). --- Section Separator --- You may be eligible for an early vaccine if you need to travel overseas to: protect the safety and security of New Zealand’s right to govern itself be involved in Government-approved humanitarian efforts as part of New Zealand’s commitments to foreign aid, international disaster responses, or supporting Pacific and Realm countries to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic participate in major international events where travel is necessary to represent New Zealand be involved in nationally significant trade negotiations. The relevant agency or association will apply on your behalf. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling overseas before 31 August , you can apply online for an early vaccine through the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an early vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our vaccine rollout How to get a vaccination Vaccine development and safety Vaccination and your job Apply for an early vaccination Vaccine resources
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine resources --- Section Separator --- We've translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages. Translations Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 774 KB] An information sheet with answers to your most commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine and its safety and side effects. COVID-19 vaccine – your questions answered [PDF, 139 KB] COVID-19 vaccine – your safety and side effects questions answered [PDF, 138 KB] An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 100 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 634 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 86 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] A one-page poster outlining the COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan for New Zealand. This includes four groups, who the groups include and why, when and where these groups will get vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [PDF, 184 KB] A booklet detailing New Zealand's vaccine plan to support the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. This covers information on vaccine safety, access, equity and supply. COVID-19 vaccine – protecting Aotearoa [PDF, 403 KB] A brochure covering the different groups as part of the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. This includes when and how the groups will be vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccine – when will I get the vaccine? [PDF, 685 KB] A graph estimating the volumes and timing of our COVID-19 vaccine rollout. This illustration shows planned DHB vaccine dose delivery to 30 June 2021. COVID-19 vaccine – estimated volumes and timing of vaccine rollout [PDF, 435 KB] An information sheet specifically for border and MIQ workers. Information on the rollout, who household contacts are, the vaccine protection and effectiveness, how the vaccines work and its safety. Advice about the COVID-19 vaccine – for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 110 KB] An information sheet specifically for border and MIQ workers – advice about the vaccination process. Advice about the COVID-19 vaccination process – for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 89 KB] An information sheet specifically for people living with border and MIQ workers. COVID-19 vaccine – for people who live with border and MIQ workers [PDF, 121 KB] Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- We've translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages. Translations --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 774 KB] An information sheet with answers to your most commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine and its safety and side effects. COVID-19 vaccine – your questions answered [PDF, 139 KB] COVID-19 vaccine – your safety and side effects questions answered [PDF, 138 KB] An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 100 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 634 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 86 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- A one-page poster outlining the COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan for New Zealand. This includes four groups, who the groups include and why, when and where these groups will get vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [PDF, 184 KB] A booklet detailing New Zealand's vaccine plan to support the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. This covers information on vaccine safety, access, equity and supply. COVID-19 vaccine – protecting Aotearoa [PDF, 403 KB] A brochure covering the different groups as part of the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. This includes when and how the groups will be vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccine – when will I get the vaccine? [PDF, 685 KB] A graph estimating the volumes and timing of our COVID-19 vaccine rollout. This illustration shows planned DHB vaccine dose delivery to 30 June 2021. COVID-19 vaccine – estimated volumes and timing of vaccine rollout [PDF, 435 KB] --- Section Separator --- An information sheet specifically for border and MIQ workers. Information on the rollout, who household contacts are, the vaccine protection and effectiveness, how the vaccines work and its safety. Advice about the COVID-19 vaccine – for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 110 KB] An information sheet specifically for border and MIQ workers – advice about the vaccination process. Advice about the COVID-19 vaccination process – for all border and MIQ workers [PDF, 89 KB] An information sheet specifically for people living with border and MIQ workers. COVID-19 vaccine – for people who live with border and MIQ workers [PDF, 121 KB] --- Section Separator --- Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our vaccine rollout How to get a vaccination Vaccine development and safety Vaccination and your job Apply for an early vaccination Vaccine resources
The Pfizer vaccine will be free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. Find out what to do if you’re pregnant or breastfeeding, are getting another vaccination, or have a health condition. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their COVID-19 vaccinations. Learn more about who’s in each group. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their COVID-19 vaccinations. Answer these questions to find out which group you’re in. When and how you schedule your COVID-19 vaccination appointments will depend on which group you're in. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. COVID-19 vaccinations will be available at a range of locations, including health centres and community clinics. --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine will be free and available to everyone aged 16 and over. Find out what to do if you’re pregnant or breastfeeding, are getting another vaccination, or have a health condition. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their COVID-19 vaccinations. Learn more about who’s in each group. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 groups for their COVID-19 vaccinations. Answer these questions to find out which group you’re in. When and how you schedule your COVID-19 vaccination appointments will depend on which group you're in. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. COVID-19 vaccinations will be available at a range of locations, including health centres and community clinics.
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Booking your vaccination appointments --- Section Separator --- We’ll confirm your contact details through our records and your employer. A health worker from your regional DHB will then contact you about making an appointment to get vaccinated. You can book your vaccination at the same time as your regular testing schedule. When you get an appointment, you'll also be sent a link to an online form to provide details of the people you live with. If you’re not contacted to make an appointment, talk to your employer. When a border or MIQ worker receives their appointment, they'll be sent a link to an online form. They can use this to enter the details of the people they live with (their household contacts). These people will be contacted about getting vaccinated after the rollout to border and MIQ workers has started. If this doesn't happen within 1 week, phone Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 to confirm if their details are in the system. Information for people who live with border and MIQ staff [PDF, 121 KB] If you're a frontline healthcare worker, you can expect an invitation to be vaccinated from your employer, district health board (DHB) or health provider. If you have not received an invitation yet, speak to your employer or contact your DHB. All other people in Group 2 can find more information about when they will be vaccinated, and how appointments will be made on their DHB's website. Vaccine rollout information by DHB If you’re in Group 3, you can expect an invitation to be vaccinated from your local DHB from late May . There are about 1.7 m illion people in Group 3 , so you may not receive an invitation immediately. With such a large group of people, DHBs need the flexibility to respond to the needs of their local communities. At times, this could mean vaccinating some priority groups ahead of others. Most DHBs will start with people who are aged 75 or over, t hen move onto those with disabilities or relevant underlying health conditions. Everyone aged 16 and over will have the opportunity to get vaccinated. No one will miss out. You will be able to get more information on your local DHB ’s website once vaccinations for Group 3 start. Vaccine rollout information by DHB We'll provide information about appointments for this group closer to the time they can be vaccinated. The actual start times will depend on when vaccines are delivered. Changes may also happen if we get new information that affects how the rollout will work. Find out when you can get a vaccine Vaccine rollout groups --- Section Separator --- We’ll confirm your contact details through our records and your employer. A health worker from your regional DHB will then contact you about making an appointment to get vaccinated. You can book your vaccination at the same time as your regular testing schedule. When you get an appointment, you'll also be sent a link to an online form to provide details of the people you live with. If you’re not contacted to make an appointment, talk to your employer. When a border or MIQ worker receives their appointment, they'll be sent a link to an online form. They can use this to enter the details of the people they live with (their household contacts). These people will be contacted about getting vaccinated after the rollout to border and MIQ workers has started. If this doesn't happen within 1 week, phone Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 to confirm if their details are in the system. Information for people who live with border and MIQ staff [PDF, 121 KB] --- Section Separator --- If you're a frontline healthcare worker, you can expect an invitation to be vaccinated from your employer, district health board (DHB) or health provider. If you have not received an invitation yet, speak to your employer or contact your DHB. All other people in Group 2 can find more information about when they will be vaccinated, and how appointments will be made on their DHB's website. Vaccine rollout information by DHB --- Section Separator --- If you’re in Group 3, you can expect an invitation to be vaccinated from your local DHB from late May . There are about 1.7 m illion people in Group 3 , so you may not receive an invitation immediately. With such a large group of people, DHBs need the flexibility to respond to the needs of their local communities. At times, this could mean vaccinating some priority groups ahead of others. Most DHBs will start with people who are aged 75 or over, t hen move onto those with disabilities or relevant underlying health conditions. Everyone aged 16 and over will have the opportunity to get vaccinated. No one will miss out. You will be able to get more information on your local DHB ’s website once vaccinations for Group 3 start. Vaccine rollout information by DHB --- Section Separator --- We'll provide information about appointments for this group closer to the time they can be vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- The actual start times will depend on when vaccines are delivered. Changes may also happen if we get new information that affects how the rollout will work. --- Section Separator --- Find out when you can get a vaccine Vaccine rollout groups --- Section Separator --- Our vaccine rollout How to get a vaccination Who can get a vaccination Vaccine rollout groups When you can get a vaccine Booking your vaccination appointments What to expect when you get your vaccinations Vaccination centres Who can get a vaccination Vaccine rollout groups When you can get a vaccine Booking your vaccination appointments What to expect when you get your vaccinations Vaccination centres Vaccine development and safety Vaccination and your job Apply for an early vaccination Vaccine resources
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Booking your vaccination appointments Vaccine rollout information by DHB --- Section Separator --- Each district health board (DHB) around New Zealand is managing the rollout of the vaccine in their area. Exactly how and when people are contacted may differ between regions. If you're not sure which district health board (DHB) provides services for your area, check the Ministry of Health website. My DHB (external link) Auckland District Health Board (external link) Bay of Plenty District Health Board (external link) Capital & Coast District Health Board (external link) Counties Manukau District Health Board (external link) Hawkes Bay District Health Board (external link) (external link) Hutt Valley District Health Board (external link) (external link) Lakes District Health Board (external link) Mid Central District Health Board (external link) Northland District Health Board (external link) Tairāwhiti District Health Board (external link) Taranaki District Health Board (external link) Waikato District Health Board (external link) Wairarapa District Health Board (external link) Waitematā District Health Board (external link) Whanganui District Health Board (external link) Canterbury District Health Board (external link) Nelson-Marlborough District Health Board (external link) South Canterbury District Health Board (external link) (external link) Southern District Health Board (external link) West Coast District Health Board (external link) Vaccine rollout groups Find out when you can get a vaccine --- Section Separator --- Each district health board (DHB) around New Zealand is managing the rollout of the vaccine in their area. Exactly how and when people are contacted may differ between regions. If you're not sure which district health board (DHB) provides services for your area, check the Ministry of Health website. My DHB (external link) Auckland District Health Board (external link) Bay of Plenty District Health Board (external link) Capital & Coast District Health Board (external link) Counties Manukau District Health Board (external link) Hawkes Bay District Health Board (external link) (external link) Hutt Valley District Health Board (external link) (external link) Lakes District Health Board (external link) Mid Central District Health Board (external link) Northland District Health Board (external link) Tairāwhiti District Health Board (external link) Taranaki District Health Board (external link) Waikato District Health Board (external link) Wairarapa District Health Board (external link) Waitematā District Health Board (external link) Whanganui District Health Board (external link) Canterbury District Health Board (external link) Nelson-Marlborough District Health Board (external link) South Canterbury District Health Board (external link) (external link) Southern District Health Board (external link) West Coast District Health Board (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccine rollout groups Find out when you can get a vaccine --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccines Our vaccine rollout How to get a vaccination Vaccine development and safety Vaccination and your job Apply for an early vaccination Vaccine resources Our vaccine rollout How to get a vaccination Vaccine development and safety Vaccination and your job Apply for an early vaccination Vaccine resources How to access healthcare Exercising safely Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 In an emergency
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Vaccine rollout groups --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 vaccine rollout groups. People at greater risk will get vaccinated first. Answer these questions to find out when you can get a vaccine The first people to be vaccinated are people working at the border or in MIQ, and the people they live with (household contacts). People in Group 1 can get early access to a vaccine because border and MIQ workers are most at risk of contracting COVID-19. Vaccinating this group first will also potentially reduce the risk of transmission in the community. You are in this group if you: are a high-risk frontline healthcare workers work in a long-term residential environment live in long-term residential care and are 16 or over are an older Māori or Pacific person being cared for by whānau live in the Counties Manukau DHB area and are 65 or over, have an underlying health condition or disability, are pregnant, or are in a custodial setting. Find out if you are in the Counties Manukau DHB area (external link) (external link) (external link) (external link) People in Group 2 can get early access to a vaccine because: older Māori and Pacific people living with their whānau in the community are more at risk of getting very sick from COVID-19 frontline healthcare and disability workers are at greater risk of getting COVID-19, or spreading it to people most at risk people working in long-term residential environments or living in long-term residential care have a higher risk of catching or spreading COVID-19 and getting very sick or dying there are many border and MIQ facilities in the Counties Manukau DHB area and people who are aged 65 or over, have an underlying health condition or disability, are pregnant are more at risk of getting very sick from COVID-19 international evidence has shown that COVID-19 can spread quickly among people in custody. Sign up for Group 2 updates (external link) You’re in this group if you are: aged 65 or over have a relevant underlying health condition pregnant disabled an adult in a custodial setting. People in Group 3 can get early access to a vaccine because: we know that age and certain underlying health conditions and disabilities mean that it is much more likely that people will get very sick they catch COVID-19 international evidence has shown that COVID-19 can spread quickly among people in custody. Sign up for Group 3 updates (external link) You’re in this group if you’re aged 16 or over. Group 4 are being vaccinated from July because, before we vaccinate the wider population, we need to protect the people who are: most at risk of catching or spreading COVID-19 most at risk of becoming seriously ill or even dying if they get the virus. Everyone will have the opportunity to protect themselves, their whānau and our communities. Sign up for Group 4 updates (external link) The actual start times will depend on when vaccines are delivered. Changes may also happen if we get new information that affects how the rollout will work. When and how you schedule your COVID-19 vaccination appointments will depend on which group you're in. Booking your vaccination appointments Who can get a COVID-19 vaccination Booking your COVID-19 vaccination appointments --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 vaccine rollout groups. People at greater risk will get vaccinated first. Answer these questions to find out when you can get a vaccine --- Section Separator --- The first people to be vaccinated are people working at the border or in MIQ, and the people they live with (household contacts). People in Group 1 can get early access to a vaccine because border and MIQ workers are most at risk of contracting COVID-19. Vaccinating this group first will also potentially reduce the risk of transmission in the community. --- Section Separator --- You are in this group if you: are a high-risk frontline healthcare workers work in a long-term residential environment live in long-term residential care and are 16 or over are an older Māori or Pacific person being cared for by whānau live in the Counties Manukau DHB area and are 65 or over, have an underlying health condition or disability, are pregnant, or are in a custodial setting. Find out if you are in the Counties Manukau DHB area (external link) (external link) (external link) (external link) People in Group 2 can get early access to a vaccine because: older Māori and Pacific people living with their whānau in the community are more at risk of getting very sick from COVID-19 frontline healthcare and disability workers are at greater risk of getting COVID-19, or spreading it to people most at risk people working in long-term residential environments or living in long-term residential care have a higher risk of catching or spreading COVID-19 and getting very sick or dying there are many border and MIQ facilities in the Counties Manukau DHB area and people who are aged 65 or over, have an underlying health condition or disability, are pregnant are more at risk of getting very sick from COVID-19 international evidence has shown that COVID-19 can spread quickly among people in custody. Sign up for Group 2 updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- You’re in this group if you are: aged 65 or over have a relevant underlying health condition pregnant disabled an adult in a custodial setting. People in Group 3 can get early access to a vaccine because: we know that age and certain underlying health conditions and disabilities mean that it is much more likely that people will get very sick they catch COVID-19 international evidence has shown that COVID-19 can spread quickly among people in custody. Sign up for Group 3 updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- You’re in this group if you’re aged 16 or over. Group 4 are being vaccinated from July because, before we vaccinate the wider population, we need to protect the people who are: most at risk of catching or spreading COVID-19 most at risk of becoming seriously ill or even dying if they get the virus. Everyone will have the opportunity to protect themselves, their whānau and our communities. Sign up for Group 4 updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- The actual start times will depend on when vaccines are delivered. Changes may also happen if we get new information that affects how the rollout will work. --- Section Separator --- When and how you schedule your COVID-19 vaccination appointments will depend on which group you're in. Booking your vaccination appointments --- Section Separator --- Who can get a COVID-19 vaccination Booking your COVID-19 vaccination appointments --- Section Separator --- Our vaccine rollout How to get a vaccination Who can get a vaccination Vaccine rollout groups When you can get a vaccine Booking your vaccination appointments What to expect when you get your vaccinations Vaccination centres Who can get a vaccination Vaccine rollout groups When you can get a vaccine Booking your vaccination appointments What to expect when you get your vaccinations Vaccination centres Vaccine development and safety Vaccination and your job Apply for an early vaccination Vaccine resources
If you're 16 or over, answer these questions to find out when you can get a vaccine. Your result will tell you which group you’re probably in — Group 1, 2, 3, or 4 — depending on your age and situation. These dates are estimates — the actual start times will depend on when vaccines are delivered. Changes may also happen if we get new information that affects how the rollout will work. --- Section Separator --- We’ll have enough of the Pfizer vaccine for everyone to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. Find out more about our vaccine rollout The Pfizer vaccine will be available to everyone aged 16 and over. Find out what to do if you’re pregnant or breastfeeding, are getting another vaccination, or have a health condition. Who can get a vaccination When and how you schedule your COVID-19 vaccination appointments will depend on which group you're in. Booking your vaccination appointments
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Vaccination centres --- Section Separator --- Each district health board (DHB) around New Zealand is managing the rollout of the vaccine in their area. Exactly how and when people are contacted may differ between regions. You will get your vaccine at or near the place you work. The people you live with will be invited to get their vaccine at a range of places. You will get your vaccine at or near the place you work. You will get your vaccine at or near your facility. Different options will be available, including community clinics and pop-up centres. We will offer different options to make getting a vaccine as easy as possible. These include: pop-up centres GPs Māori and Pacific providers mobile clinics community clinics. --- Section Separator --- Each district health board (DHB) around New Zealand is managing the rollout of the vaccine in their area. Exactly how and when people are contacted may differ between regions. You will get your vaccine at or near the place you work. The people you live with will be invited to get their vaccine at a range of places. You will get your vaccine at or near the place you work. You will get your vaccine at or near your facility. Different options will be available, including community clinics and pop-up centres. We will offer different options to make getting a vaccine as easy as possible. These include: pop-up centres GPs Māori and Pacific providers mobile clinics community clinics. --- Section Separator --- Our vaccine rollout How to get a vaccination Who can get a vaccination Vaccine rollout groups When you can get a vaccine Booking your vaccination appointments What to expect when you get your vaccinations Vaccination centres Who can get a vaccination Vaccine rollout groups When you can get a vaccine Booking your vaccination appointments What to expect when you get your vaccinations Vaccination centres Vaccine development and safety Vaccination and your job Apply for an early vaccination Vaccine resources
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccinations --- Section Separator --- When and how you book your COVID-19 vaccination appointments will depend on which group you're in. Booking your COVID-19 vaccination appointments A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You'll be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you don't need to show photo ID) to give consent to receive the vaccine – this is standard practice for any vaccination. A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You’ll need to stay for at least 20 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you’re okay. We'll record information about your COVID-19 immunisations in our COVID Immunisation Register. You’ll be given a card that shows the date you've been vaccinated and the batch number. Getting 2 doses of the vaccine, at least 21 days apart, is important to give you the best protection. Check your second vaccination is booked and keep a note of where and when it will take place. If you’re also getting a flu or measles vaccination When your vaccine appointment is confirmed, you’ll get instructions on what to do if you need to reschedule your appointment for any reason. If you’re unwell and can’t make your appointment, you’ll need to reschedule it as soon as possible. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, get a test and stay at home until you get your results. You can be vaccinated once you have a negative test. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect [PDF, 100 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine — simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] After your immunisation [PDF, 86 KB] COVID-19 vaccines privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] The Pfizer vaccine is the main COVID-19 vaccine being used in New Zealand. It's free, and we've secured enough for everyone aged 16 and over to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: is a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine does not contain any live virus, or dead or deactivated virus can't give you COVID-19 can't affect your DNA does not contain any animal products. More information about the Pfizer vaccine (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Vaccination side effects You’ll need to get your second dose of the vaccine at least 21 days (3 weeks) after your first dose. Getting 2 doses of the vaccine is important to give you the best protection. Make sure you check your second vaccination is booked, and keep a note of where and when it will take place. If you can’t make your appointment, reschedule as soon as possible. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- When and how you book your COVID-19 vaccination appointments will depend on which group you're in. Booking your COVID-19 vaccination appointments --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You'll be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you don't need to show photo ID) to give consent to receive the vaccine – this is standard practice for any vaccination. A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You’ll need to stay for at least 20 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you’re okay. We'll record information about your COVID-19 immunisations in our COVID Immunisation Register. You’ll be given a card that shows the date you've been vaccinated and the batch number. Getting 2 doses of the vaccine, at least 21 days apart, is important to give you the best protection. Check your second vaccination is booked and keep a note of where and when it will take place. If you’re also getting a flu or measles vaccination When your vaccine appointment is confirmed, you’ll get instructions on what to do if you need to reschedule your appointment for any reason. If you’re unwell and can’t make your appointment, you’ll need to reschedule it as soon as possible. If you have symptoms of COVID-19, get a test and stay at home until you get your results. You can be vaccinated once you have a negative test. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect [PDF, 100 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine — simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] After your immunisation [PDF, 86 KB] COVID-19 vaccines privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is the main COVID-19 vaccine being used in New Zealand. It's free, and we've secured enough for everyone aged 16 and over to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: is a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine does not contain any live virus, or dead or deactivated virus can't give you COVID-19 can't affect your DNA does not contain any animal products. More information about the Pfizer vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Vaccination side effects --- Section Separator --- You’ll need to get your second dose of the vaccine at least 21 days (3 weeks) after your first dose. Getting 2 doses of the vaccine is important to give you the best protection. Make sure you check your second vaccination is booked, and keep a note of where and when it will take place. If you can’t make your appointment, reschedule as soon as possible. --- Section Separator --- The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our vaccine rollout How to get a vaccination Who can get a vaccination Vaccine rollout groups When you can get a vaccine Booking your vaccination appointments What to expect when you get your vaccinations Vaccination centres Who can get a vaccination Vaccine rollout groups When you can get a vaccine Booking your vaccination appointments What to expect when you get your vaccinations Vaccination centres Vaccine development and safety Vaccination and your job Apply for an early vaccination Vaccine resources
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Who can get a vaccination --- Section Separator --- We’ll have enough of the Pfizer vaccine for everyone to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. You’ll be offered the vaccine if you’re aged 16 or over – it doesn’t matter what your visa or residency status is. Find out when you can get a vaccine People under the age of 16 are not included for now, because the vaccines have not been tested on this age group yet. The Pfizer vaccine has shown to be highly effective in adults aged 65 and over. If you have any questions or concerns, talk to your vaccinator or doctor first. Based on how the vaccine works, experts believe it is as safe for pregnant people as for everyone else. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain the live virus, so cannot give you or your baby COVID-19 – but it can offer protection against the disease for you and your baby. As with all vaccinations, be sure to talk to your midwife, GP or healthcare professional before you get the vaccine, to make sure you have the right information for you and your baby. It is also safe for you and your baby to breastfeed after you’ve been vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccines in pregnancy and breastfeeding (external link) There is no biologically plausible reason why the Pfizer vaccine could have any effect on your genes or fertility. The mRNA from the vaccine does not enter the nucleus of any cells, which is where DNA is situated. People with some underlying health conditions will be able to get early access to the vaccine. At the moment, relevant health conditions include: serious and chronic respiratory conditions, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) chronic kidney/renal disease diabetes coronary heart conditions stroke hypertension (high blood pressure) cancer, excluding basal and squamous skin cancers if not invasive. We will review this list as more evidence on underlying health conditions, the COVID-19 virus and vaccines becomes available. If you’re on blood-thinning medications or have a bleeding disorder, let your vaccinator know. If you’ve had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your vaccinator. You'll need to wait at least: 2 weeks between the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine and influenza (flu) vaccine 4 weeks between the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine and the Measles, Mumps and Rubella (MMR) vaccine if you get the MMR vaccine first 2 weeks between the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine and the Measles, Mumps and Rubella (MMR) vaccine if you get the COVID-19 vaccine first. Get both doses of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine first. You can get your flu vaccine from 2 weeks after your second dose. If you're 16-30 years old, you may need to get a measles vaccination too. Get your flu vaccination first. You can get your COVID-19 vaccination from 2 weeks after this. If you're 16-30 years old, you may need to get a measles vaccination too. --- Section Separator --- We’ll have enough of the Pfizer vaccine for everyone to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. You’ll be offered the vaccine if you’re aged 16 or over – it doesn’t matter what your visa or residency status is. Find out when you can get a vaccine --- Section Separator --- People under the age of 16 are not included for now, because the vaccines have not been tested on this age group yet. --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine has shown to be highly effective in adults aged 65 and over. If you have any questions or concerns, talk to your vaccinator or doctor first. --- Section Separator --- Based on how the vaccine works, experts believe it is as safe for pregnant people as for everyone else. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain the live virus, so cannot give you or your baby COVID-19 – but it can offer protection against the disease for you and your baby. As with all vaccinations, be sure to talk to your midwife, GP or healthcare professional before you get the vaccine, to make sure you have the right information for you and your baby. It is also safe for you and your baby to breastfeed after you’ve been vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccines in pregnancy and breastfeeding (external link) --- Section Separator --- There is no biologically plausible reason why the Pfizer vaccine could have any effect on your genes or fertility. The mRNA from the vaccine does not enter the nucleus of any cells, which is where DNA is situated. --- Section Separator --- People with some underlying health conditions will be able to get early access to the vaccine. At the moment, relevant health conditions include: serious and chronic respiratory conditions, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) chronic kidney/renal disease diabetes coronary heart conditions stroke hypertension (high blood pressure) cancer, excluding basal and squamous skin cancers if not invasive. We will review this list as more evidence on underlying health conditions, the COVID-19 virus and vaccines becomes available. --- Section Separator --- If you’re on blood-thinning medications or have a bleeding disorder, let your vaccinator know. --- Section Separator --- If you’ve had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your vaccinator. --- Section Separator --- You'll need to wait at least: 2 weeks between the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine and influenza (flu) vaccine 4 weeks between the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine and the Measles, Mumps and Rubella (MMR) vaccine if you get the MMR vaccine first 2 weeks between the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine and the Measles, Mumps and Rubella (MMR) vaccine if you get the COVID-19 vaccine first. Get both doses of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine first. You can get your flu vaccine from 2 weeks after your second dose. If you're 16-30 years old, you may need to get a measles vaccination too. Get your flu vaccination first. You can get your COVID-19 vaccination from 2 weeks after this. If you're 16-30 years old, you may need to get a measles vaccination too. --- Section Separator --- Our vaccine rollout How to get a vaccination Who can get a vaccination Vaccine rollout groups When you can get a vaccine Booking your vaccination appointments What to expect when you get your vaccinations Vaccination centres Who can get a vaccination Vaccine rollout groups When you can get a vaccine Booking your vaccination appointments What to expect when you get your vaccinations Vaccination centres Vaccine development and safety Vaccination and your job Apply for an early vaccination Vaccine resources
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines Our vaccine rollout --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines will be free and voluntary for everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over, regardless of their visa or citizenship status. Any information collected will not be used for immigration purposes. We’ll have enough of the Pfizer vaccine for everyone to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. People under the age of 16 are not included for now, because the vaccines have not been tested on this age group yet. Who can get a COVID-19 vaccination We’re rolling out the vaccine in stages. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 vaccine groups. First, we’re protecting those most at risk of catching COVID-19 in their workplace. This will reduce the risk of future outbreaks and lockdowns. Next, we’ll vaccinate people most at risk of getting seriously sick or dying if they get the virus. The vaccine is free for everyone and no one will miss out. Find out when you can get a vaccine We’ve already rolled out the vaccine to border and MIQ workers, and the people they live with. Learn more about Group 1 You are in this group if you: are a high-risk frontline healthcare workers work in a long-term residential environment live in long-term residential care are an older Māori or Pacific person being cared for by whānau live in the Counties Manukau DHB area and are 65 or over, have an underlying health condition or disability, are pregnant, or are in a custodial setting. Learn more about Group 2 You’re in this group if you are: aged 65 or over have a relevant underlying health condition disabled an adult in a custodial setting. Learn more about Group 3 You’re in this group if you’re aged 16 or over. Learn more about Group 4 Note: These dates are estimates — the actual start times will depend on when vaccines are delivered. Changes may also happen if we get new information that affects how the rollout will work. The Pfizer vaccine is free for everyone in New Zealand. Do not share your bank details with anyone offering you a COVID-19 vaccine for a fee. Report a COVID-19 vaccine scam The Pfizer vaccine is the main COVID-19 vaccine being used in New Zealand. It's free, and we've secured enough for everyone aged 16 and over to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: is a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine does not contain any live virus, or dead or deactivated virus can't give you COVID-19 can't affect your DNA does not contain any animal products. More information about the Pfizer vaccine (external link) Each district health board (DHB) around New Zealand is managing the rollout of the vaccine in their area. Exactly how and when people are contacted may differ between regions. Vaccination centres Our plan is to: supply enough vaccines to protect Aotearoa and the Pacific protect Māori, Pacific peoples, and other groups at greater risk of COVID-19 make it easy for people to get vaccinated put safety first with all COVID-19 vaccines ensure we are prepared for future outbreaks support New Zealand’s contribution to global well-being. The Government is committed to upholding and honouring Te Tiriti o Waitangi. Partnership, tino rangatiratanga, options, equity and active protection are all a strong focus. While all health providers are responsible for vaccinating the Māori and Pacific people in their communities, we know Māori and Pacific providers hold trusted relationships with the whānau they serve. These providers will play an important part in making sure Māori and Pacific people get vaccinated. We will partner with Māori and Pacific providers so they can deliver tailored and targeted approaches to their communities as part of the wider COVID-19 vaccination programme rollout. The Government has committed dedicated funding and resources for Māori and Pacific providers and communities to prepare for this. Learn more about our vaccine strategy and planning (external link) We’re looking for extra vaccinators to support the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. If you’re a retired health professional or not currently working in the health workforce and want to volunteer, visit the Ministry of Health's website to register your interest. Register your interest in being a vaccinator (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up for our COVID-19 vaccine newsletter --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines will be free and voluntary for everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over, regardless of their visa or citizenship status. Any information collected will not be used for immigration purposes. We’ll have enough of the Pfizer vaccine for everyone to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. People under the age of 16 are not included for now, because the vaccines have not been tested on this age group yet. Who can get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- We’re rolling out the vaccine in stages. Everyone in New Zealand aged 16 and over will be in 1 of 4 vaccine groups. First, we’re protecting those most at risk of catching COVID-19 in their workplace. This will reduce the risk of future outbreaks and lockdowns. Next, we’ll vaccinate people most at risk of getting seriously sick or dying if they get the virus. The vaccine is free for everyone and no one will miss out. Find out when you can get a vaccine We’ve already rolled out the vaccine to border and MIQ workers, and the people they live with. Learn more about Group 1 You are in this group if you: are a high-risk frontline healthcare workers work in a long-term residential environment live in long-term residential care are an older Māori or Pacific person being cared for by whānau live in the Counties Manukau DHB area and are 65 or over, have an underlying health condition or disability, are pregnant, or are in a custodial setting. Learn more about Group 2 You’re in this group if you are: aged 65 or over have a relevant underlying health condition disabled an adult in a custodial setting. Learn more about Group 3 You’re in this group if you’re aged 16 or over. Learn more about Group 4 Note: These dates are estimates — the actual start times will depend on when vaccines are delivered. Changes may also happen if we get new information that affects how the rollout will work. --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is free for everyone in New Zealand. Do not share your bank details with anyone offering you a COVID-19 vaccine for a fee. Report a COVID-19 vaccine scam --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is the main COVID-19 vaccine being used in New Zealand. It's free, and we've secured enough for everyone aged 16 and over to get the 2 doses they need to be protected. It works by teaching your immune system to recognise and fight off the virus. The Pfizer vaccine: is a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine does not contain any live virus, or dead or deactivated virus can't give you COVID-19 can't affect your DNA does not contain any animal products. More information about the Pfizer vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Each district health board (DHB) around New Zealand is managing the rollout of the vaccine in their area. Exactly how and when people are contacted may differ between regions. Vaccination centres --- Section Separator --- Our plan is to: supply enough vaccines to protect Aotearoa and the Pacific protect Māori, Pacific peoples, and other groups at greater risk of COVID-19 make it easy for people to get vaccinated put safety first with all COVID-19 vaccines ensure we are prepared for future outbreaks support New Zealand’s contribution to global well-being. The Government is committed to upholding and honouring Te Tiriti o Waitangi. Partnership, tino rangatiratanga, options, equity and active protection are all a strong focus. While all health providers are responsible for vaccinating the Māori and Pacific people in their communities, we know Māori and Pacific providers hold trusted relationships with the whānau they serve. These providers will play an important part in making sure Māori and Pacific people get vaccinated. We will partner with Māori and Pacific providers so they can deliver tailored and targeted approaches to their communities as part of the wider COVID-19 vaccination programme rollout. The Government has committed dedicated funding and resources for Māori and Pacific providers and communities to prepare for this. Learn more about our vaccine strategy and planning (external link) --- Section Separator --- We’re looking for extra vaccinators to support the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. If you’re a retired health professional or not currently working in the health workforce and want to volunteer, visit the Ministry of Health's website to register your interest. Register your interest in being a vaccinator (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up for our COVID-19 vaccine newsletter --- Section Separator --- Our vaccine rollout How to get a vaccination Vaccine development and safety Vaccination and your job Apply for an early vaccination Vaccine resources
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination and your job --- Section Separator --- If an employer thinks particular work needs to be done only by vaccinated workers, on health and safety grounds, they must first do a COVID-19 exposure risk assessment. This assessment needs to be done in collaboration with workers, unions and other representatives. A risk assessment will need to consider: the likelihood of workers being exposed to COVID-19 while performing the role the potential consequences of that — for example, community transmission. WorkSafe has more detailed guidance on risk assessments. Assessing whether a specific role needs to be performed by a vaccinated worker (external link) Existing employment law obligations still apply. This includes: making changes to terms and conditions of employment by agreement engaging in consultation in good faith avoiding unlawful discrimination against workers on the basis of vaccination status not taking actions that might unjustifiably disadvantage workers on the basis of vaccination status. (external link) The Government has introduced a new requirement that all work in MIQ settings must be carried out by people who have been vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination requirements for workers in high-risk border settings If you and your employer disagree about whether particular work needs to be done only by a vaccinated worker, you can access the Early Resolution Service. This offers a free and informal process to try and work through issues. Early Resolution Service (external link) Your employer can’t share information about your vaccination status with anyone, unless they have your permission to do so, or there’s an exception under the Privacy Act. You don’t have to tell your employer if you’ve been vaccinated. If you choose not to get vaccinated, you don’t have to tell them why. If you are in a role that needs to be done only by a vaccinated worker but choose not to disclose your vaccination status, your employer can treat you as unvaccinated, but they’ll have to tell you that’s what they’re doing. COVID-19 vaccination and employment — Employment NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- If an employer thinks particular work needs to be done only by vaccinated workers, on health and safety grounds, they must first do a COVID-19 exposure risk assessment. This assessment needs to be done in collaboration with workers, unions and other representatives. A risk assessment will need to consider: the likelihood of workers being exposed to COVID-19 while performing the role the potential consequences of that — for example, community transmission. WorkSafe has more detailed guidance on risk assessments. Assessing whether a specific role needs to be performed by a vaccinated worker (external link) Existing employment law obligations still apply. This includes: making changes to terms and conditions of employment by agreement engaging in consultation in good faith avoiding unlawful discrimination against workers on the basis of vaccination status not taking actions that might unjustifiably disadvantage workers on the basis of vaccination status. (external link) The Government has introduced a new requirement that all work in MIQ settings must be carried out by people who have been vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination requirements for workers in high-risk border settings --- Section Separator --- If you and your employer disagree about whether particular work needs to be done only by a vaccinated worker, you can access the Early Resolution Service. This offers a free and informal process to try and work through issues. Early Resolution Service (external link) --- Section Separator --- Your employer can’t share information about your vaccination status with anyone, unless they have your permission to do so, or there’s an exception under the Privacy Act. You don’t have to tell your employer if you’ve been vaccinated. If you choose not to get vaccinated, you don’t have to tell them why. If you are in a role that needs to be done only by a vaccinated worker but choose not to disclose your vaccination status, your employer can treat you as unvaccinated, but they’ll have to tell you that’s what they’re doing. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination and employment — Employment NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our vaccine rollout How to get a vaccination Vaccine development and safety Vaccination and your job Vaccination requirements for workers in high-risk border settings Vaccination requirements for workers in high-risk border settings Apply for an early vaccination Vaccine resources
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination and your job Vaccination requirements for workers in high-risk border settings --- Section Separator --- From 1 May 2021, any MIQ worker or government official who is not vaccinated will not be allowed into high-risk border or MIQ facilities, unless a specific exception applies. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 requires all work in MIQ settings to be carried out by people who have been vaccinated against COVID-19. It also requires all government officials to be vaccinated before carrying out work in other high-risk border settings. The Vaccination Order is intended to prevent, or reduce, the outbreak or spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The Government wants to ensure we have every possible measure in place to protect the people, communities, and workplaces of New Zealand from COVID-19. COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (external link) Workers at the facility Workers who transport people to or from facilities Airside government officials Government officials who interact with international arriving or transiting passengers (other than QFT flights) Government officials who spend more than 15 minutes in an enclosed space on board affected ships Government officials who board, or who have boarded, affected ships Government officials who transport people to or from affected ships Government officials who work at an affected port who interact with persons required to be isolation or quarantine under a COVID-19 order Cabin crew who travel on domestic flights within NZ that carry international arriving or transiting passengers (other than QFT persons) who have not yet completed isolation or quarantine at managed isolation or quarantine facilities While vaccination is not mandatory and individuals are free to choose whether or not they wish to receive the vaccine, only those who have been vaccinated will be able to undertake work in MIQ settings and only vaccinated government officials will be able to undertake work in other high-risk border settings. From 1 May 2021, any MIQ worker or government official who is not vaccinated will not be allowed into high-risk border or MIQ facilities, unless a specific exception applies. Any unvaccinated government officials or MIQ workers who have previously been assigned to work in these settings will need to discuss alternative options with their employers. They will not be able to continue to work in high-risk environments until they are vaccinated. An unvaccinated person may be permitted to enter and carry out work in a place covered by this Order, if the work is unanticipated, necessary and time-critical and cannot be carried out by a person who is vaccinated; and must be carried out to prevent the place from ceasing operations. Exceptions in these circumstances may only be granted by the responsible government chief executive. A person who is not vaccinated may enter a place without approval if they need to enter to preserve or protect a person’s life, health or safety in an emergency; or are authorised or required to by law. A breach of these requirements by employers or affected workers is an infringement offence for the purposes of section 26(3) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. (Liable to an infringement fee of $300; or a fine imposed by a court, not exceeding $1000). Border and MIQ workers who have not yet received their vaccinations will be given priority when scheduling their appointments. To organise a vaccination for yourself or eligible staff, contact your local DHB directly. Contact your local DHB to organise a vaccination You can also book through the Ministry of Health using a dedicated email address. Employers can use this to submit contact lists for any staff who are not yet in the system, and workers can also do the same for themselves or their close contacts. Book a vaccination for a worker in a high-risk border setting Initially, current workers will be considered vaccinated if they have had one dose of the vaccine. However, all workers performing duties in high-risk settings must have had two doses of the vaccine before 5 June 2021. New workers covered by the Order will need to have their first dose before starting work, and then have their second dose within 35 days from starting work. With an approved and effective vaccine now available, it is critical that we do everything we can to protect our communities from COVID-19. Employment New Zealand provides in formation to help you understand your rights and responsibilities about v ­­accines in the workplace. Learn more about v ­­accines and the workplace (external link) --- Section Separator --- From 1 May 2021, any MIQ worker or government official who is not vaccinated will not be allowed into high-risk border or MIQ facilities, unless a specific exception applies. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 requires all work in MIQ settings to be carried out by people who have been vaccinated against COVID-19. It also requires all government officials to be vaccinated before carrying out work in other high-risk border settings. The Vaccination Order is intended to prevent, or reduce, the outbreak or spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The Government wants to ensure we have every possible measure in place to protect the people, communities, and workplaces of New Zealand from COVID-19. COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Workers at the facility Workers who transport people to or from facilities Airside government officials Government officials who interact with international arriving or transiting passengers (other than QFT flights) Government officials who spend more than 15 minutes in an enclosed space on board affected ships Government officials who board, or who have boarded, affected ships Government officials who transport people to or from affected ships Government officials who work at an affected port who interact with persons required to be isolation or quarantine under a COVID-19 order Cabin crew who travel on domestic flights within NZ that carry international arriving or transiting passengers (other than QFT persons) who have not yet completed isolation or quarantine at managed isolation or quarantine facilities While vaccination is not mandatory and individuals are free to choose whether or not they wish to receive the vaccine, only those who have been vaccinated will be able to undertake work in MIQ settings and only vaccinated government officials will be able to undertake work in other high-risk border settings. From 1 May 2021, any MIQ worker or government official who is not vaccinated will not be allowed into high-risk border or MIQ facilities, unless a specific exception applies. Any unvaccinated government officials or MIQ workers who have previously been assigned to work in these settings will need to discuss alternative options with their employers. They will not be able to continue to work in high-risk environments until they are vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- An unvaccinated person may be permitted to enter and carry out work in a place covered by this Order, if the work is unanticipated, necessary and time-critical and cannot be carried out by a person who is vaccinated; and must be carried out to prevent the place from ceasing operations. Exceptions in these circumstances may only be granted by the responsible government chief executive. A person who is not vaccinated may enter a place without approval if they need to enter to preserve or protect a person’s life, health or safety in an emergency; or are authorised or required to by law. --- Section Separator --- A breach of these requirements by employers or affected workers is an infringement offence for the purposes of section 26(3) of the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. (Liable to an infringement fee of $300; or a fine imposed by a court, not exceeding $1000). --- Section Separator --- Border and MIQ workers who have not yet received their vaccinations will be given priority when scheduling their appointments. To organise a vaccination for yourself or eligible staff, contact your local DHB directly. Contact your local DHB to organise a vaccination You can also book through the Ministry of Health using a dedicated email address. Employers can use this to submit contact lists for any staff who are not yet in the system, and workers can also do the same for themselves or their close contacts. Book a vaccination for a worker in a high-risk border setting --- Section Separator --- Initially, current workers will be considered vaccinated if they have had one dose of the vaccine. However, all workers performing duties in high-risk settings must have had two doses of the vaccine before 5 June 2021. New workers covered by the Order will need to have their first dose before starting work, and then have their second dose within 35 days from starting work. With an approved and effective vaccine now available, it is critical that we do everything we can to protect our communities from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Employment New Zealand provides in formation to help you understand your rights and responsibilities about v ­­accines in the workplace. Learn more about v ­­accines and the workplace (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our vaccine rollout How to get a vaccination Vaccine development and safety Vaccination and your job Vaccination requirements for workers in high-risk border settings Vaccination requirements for workers in high-risk border settings Apply for an early vaccination Vaccine resources
Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand must comply with international and local standards for quality, safety and effectiveness. How to know if what you’re reading is reliable and where to find the facts online. --- Section Separator --- Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand must comply with international and local standards for quality, safety and effectiveness. How to know if what you’re reading is reliable and where to find the facts online.
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine development and safety How vaccines are developed and approved --- Section Separator --- Creating the COVID-19 vaccines took a global effort, but the world united to take on the challenge. And we didn’t start from scratch — similar research was already well underway for similar diseases. As a result, the vaccines could be made faster, whilst still ensuring they went through all the safety checks. In New Zealand, applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, are assessed by New Zealand's Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Authority (Medsafe). Medsafe is responsible for regulating all medicines and medical devices in New Zealand. They are part of the Ministry of Health. Medsafe will only approve a vaccine for use in New Zealand once they are confident it meets all the safety checks we have in New Zealand and complies with international standards for safety effectiveness and quality of the vaccine. We have agreements with four suppliers for COVID-19 vaccines. These are Pfizer, Janssen Pharmaceutica, Novavax and AstraZeneca. The only COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in New Zealand is the Pfizer vaccine. COVID-19 vaccines we've agreed to purchase (external link) Medsafe (New Zealand's medicines safety authority) only grants consent for a vaccine to be used in New Zealand once they are satisfied it's safe and effective to use. All COVID-19 vaccines will go through the same safety tests and must meet the same robust standards. The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) is a database of information about adverse reactions (side effects) to medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. CARM monitors this information to identify any issues to help with the safe use and prescribing of medicines. Reporting your side effects will contribute to the data being collected globally, and help identify patterns in New Zealand and any potential safety issues. Report your side effects to CARM (external link) Reported side effects in New Zealand (external link) Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 vaccines — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Vaccine evaluation and approval process — Medsafe (external link) --- Section Separator --- Creating the COVID-19 vaccines took a global effort, but the world united to take on the challenge. And we didn’t start from scratch — similar research was already well underway for similar diseases. As a result, the vaccines could be made faster, whilst still ensuring they went through all the safety checks. --- Section Separator --- In New Zealand, applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, are assessed by New Zealand's Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Authority (Medsafe). Medsafe is responsible for regulating all medicines and medical devices in New Zealand. They are part of the Ministry of Health. Medsafe will only approve a vaccine for use in New Zealand once they are confident it meets all the safety checks we have in New Zealand and complies with international standards for safety effectiveness and quality of the vaccine. We have agreements with four suppliers for COVID-19 vaccines. These are Pfizer, Janssen Pharmaceutica, Novavax and AstraZeneca. The only COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in New Zealand is the Pfizer vaccine. COVID-19 vaccines we've agreed to purchase (external link) --- Section Separator --- Medsafe (New Zealand's medicines safety authority) only grants consent for a vaccine to be used in New Zealand once they are satisfied it's safe and effective to use. All COVID-19 vaccines will go through the same safety tests and must meet the same robust standards. --- Section Separator --- The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) is a database of information about adverse reactions (side effects) to medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. CARM monitors this information to identify any issues to help with the safe use and prescribing of medicines. Reporting your side effects will contribute to the data being collected globally, and help identify patterns in New Zealand and any potential safety issues. Report your side effects to CARM (external link) Reported side effects in New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccine safety and approval — Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 vaccines — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) Vaccine evaluation and approval process — Medsafe (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our vaccine rollout How to get a vaccination Vaccine development and safety Side effects How vaccines are developed and approved Get trustworthy information about vaccines Side effects How vaccines are developed and approved Get trustworthy information about vaccines Vaccination and your job Apply for an early vaccination Vaccine resources
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine development and safety Get trustworthy information about vaccines --- Section Separator --- There’s a lot of information on social media — it’s overwhelming and hard to know what’s reliable. Here are 5 tips to help you make sure what you read online is from a reliable source: Anyone on the internet can publish anything they like. It's important to understand the goals of that publication. You can often learn about a website's background by reviewing its 'About' page. The sources of an article are a strong reflection of an article's quality. If the article doesn't list sources, ask yourself — where is this information coming from? If the article does list sources, check them and make sure you believe they are credible. You can usually find this at the top or bottom of the page. Recently written articles are more likely to be trustworthy than outdated articles. Poor grammar and multiple spelling mistakes could be a flag that the information you are reading is not trustworthy. Reputable publishers put a lot of effort into making sure their articles are easy to read. If the page you are on has advertising that blocks you from reading the article, or formatting that makes it difficult to read, then those are signs the publication is not trustworthy. The Pfizer vaccine is free for everyone in New Zealand. Do not share your bank details with anyone offering you the vaccine for a fee. Report a COVID-19 vaccine scam (external link) The Ministry of Health leads New Zealand’s health and disability system, and has overall responsibility for the management and development of that system. COVID-19 vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) IMAC is a nationwide organisation based at the School of Population Health at The University of Auckland. It provides independent, factual information based on international and New Zealand scientific research about vaccine-preventable diseases the benefits and risks of immunisation. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) WHO is an agency of the United Nations, and is responsible for international public health. COVID-19 vaccines — WHO (external link) --- Section Separator --- There’s a lot of information on social media — it’s overwhelming and hard to know what’s reliable. Here are 5 tips to help you make sure what you read online is from a reliable source: Anyone on the internet can publish anything they like. It's important to understand the goals of that publication. You can often learn about a website's background by reviewing its 'About' page. The sources of an article are a strong reflection of an article's quality. If the article doesn't list sources, ask yourself — where is this information coming from? If the article does list sources, check them and make sure you believe they are credible. You can usually find this at the top or bottom of the page. Recently written articles are more likely to be trustworthy than outdated articles. Poor grammar and multiple spelling mistakes could be a flag that the information you are reading is not trustworthy. Reputable publishers put a lot of effort into making sure their articles are easy to read. If the page you are on has advertising that blocks you from reading the article, or formatting that makes it difficult to read, then those are signs the publication is not trustworthy. --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is free for everyone in New Zealand. Do not share your bank details with anyone offering you the vaccine for a fee. Report a COVID-19 vaccine scam (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health leads New Zealand’s health and disability system, and has overall responsibility for the management and development of that system. COVID-19 vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) IMAC is a nationwide organisation based at the School of Population Health at The University of Auckland. It provides independent, factual information based on international and New Zealand scientific research about vaccine-preventable diseases the benefits and risks of immunisation. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) WHO is an agency of the United Nations, and is responsible for international public health. COVID-19 vaccines — WHO (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our vaccine rollout How to get a vaccination Vaccine development and safety Side effects How vaccines are developed and approved Get trustworthy information about vaccines Side effects How vaccines are developed and approved Get trustworthy information about vaccines Vaccination and your job Apply for an early vaccination Vaccine resources
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine development and safety Side effects --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects 1—2 days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. They don’t last long and won’t stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. The most common reported reactions to the Pfizer vaccine are: pain at the injection site a headache feeling tired or fatigued muscle aches feeling generally unwell chills fever joint pain nausea. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. If you have concerns or feel unwell after your vaccination, speak with your family doctor or other health professional, or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re concerned about your safety, call 111. Tell them you’ve had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. If you’ve had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you’re okay. If you experience side effects after receiving a COVID-19 vaccine, we encourage you to report them. Reporting side effects Side effects of the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) Getting vaccinated for COVID-19 — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects 1—2 days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. They don’t last long and won’t stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. The most common reported reactions to the Pfizer vaccine are: pain at the injection site a headache feeling tired or fatigued muscle aches feeling generally unwell chills fever joint pain nausea. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. If you have concerns or feel unwell after your vaccination, speak with your family doctor or other health professional, or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re concerned about your safety, call 111. Tell them you’ve had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. --- Section Separator --- If you’ve had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you’re okay. --- Section Separator --- If you experience side effects after receiving a COVID-19 vaccine, we encourage you to report them. Reporting side effects --- Section Separator --- Side effects of the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) Getting vaccinated for COVID-19 — Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our vaccine rollout How to get a vaccination Vaccine development and safety Side effects How vaccines are developed and approved Get trustworthy information about vaccines Side effects How vaccines are developed and approved Get trustworthy information about vaccines Vaccination and your job Apply for an early vaccination Vaccine resources
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 Get tested for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms Locations of interest for the Auckland border-related cases are available on the Ministry of Health website. For contact tracing purposes, anyone who attended one of the locations listed during the relevant timeframes is considered to be a contact. Out of an abundance of caution, we are asking individuals to follow the instructions in the table if they visited these locations during the relevant times. Remember to check what type of contact you are, and what you should do. Locations of interest in Auckland, and what you need to do if you're a contact (external link) If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) Auckland testing locations (external link) Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. If you've been told you should get a test, COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This applies regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not be charged for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that your results can be sent to you. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it’s helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by Healthline or your doctor that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not be charged for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. When you are tested, you will be told how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will advise you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive If you need to be tested for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There’s more than 1 way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they’re testing. Detailed assessment and testing information from the Ministry of Health (external link) The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border (external link) Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you're travelling to New Zealand, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. Travellers from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands do not need to get pre-departure tests. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand The Ministry of Health publishes data on: current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics source of COVID-19 cases testing for COVID-19. This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest for the Auckland border-related cases are available on the Ministry of Health website. For contact tracing purposes, anyone who attended one of the locations listed during the relevant timeframes is considered to be a contact. Out of an abundance of caution, we are asking individuals to follow the instructions in the table if they visited these locations during the relevant times. Remember to check what type of contact you are, and what you should do. Locations of interest in Auckland, and what you need to do if you're a contact (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) --- Section Separator --- Auckland testing locations (external link) --- Section Separator --- Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. If you've been told you should get a test, COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This applies regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not be charged for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that your results can be sent to you. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it’s helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by Healthline or your doctor that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not be charged for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- When you are tested, you will be told how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will advise you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive --- Section Separator --- If you need to be tested for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There’s more than 1 way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they’re testing. Detailed assessment and testing information from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- If you're travelling to New Zealand, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. Travellers from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands do not need to get pre-departure tests. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes data on: current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics source of COVID-19 cases testing for COVID-19. This data helps us measure New Zealand’s recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms Get tested for COVID-19 Community Testing Centres Community Testing Centres If you test positive for COVID-19
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Keep track of where you’ve been Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Find information about contact tracing: NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet How contact tracing works Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. The app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your app. Bluetooth tracing keeps track of who you’ve been near, while maintaining everyone’s privacy. Remember to keep scanning QR codes — both are important for contact tracing. Find out more about Bluetooth tracing If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of the 3 Ws: Where you went. When you went there. Who you met. NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- NZ COVID Tracer app: Bluetooth tracing How contact tracing keeps us safe Contact tracing — Golden rules with Panatahi --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing keeps us safe — cartoon [PDF, 2.1 MB] How contact tracing keeps us safe — colouring-in version [PDF, 1014 KB] --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster.
Home Travel and the border Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — regardless of destination. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand You are strongly advised to check requirements with your airline and your destination before travelling to Australia. You can travel from New Zealand to Australia without needing to quarantine there if you have been in New Zealand for 14 days or more and have not been in a designated COVID-19 outbreak location. You will have to check what you need to do before you travel. Some states or territories may still require you to quarantine when you arrive. You will need to complete an Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart for Australia. The Australian Government has more information on: COVID-19 outbreak locations, and if there are any in New Zealand completing an Australia Travel Declaration before you depart whether you need a visa to enter Australia travel exemptions if you have been in New Zealand for less than 14 days, including if you are transiting. Make sure you check the requirements you need to meet with the Australian Government and with your airline. These can change at short notice. Travel to Australia — quarantine-free travel Guidance on travelling from New Zealand to Australia — Australian Government (external link) You can travel to New Zealand from Australia without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Normal immigration rules apply, and you will have to meet some eligibility criteria to travel quarantine-free. Travel from Australia to New Zealand — quarantine-free travel Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your GP. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your GP or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — regardless of destination. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas --- Section Separator --- If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You are strongly advised to check requirements with your airline and your destination before travelling to Australia. You can travel from New Zealand to Australia without needing to quarantine there if you have been in New Zealand for 14 days or more and have not been in a designated COVID-19 outbreak location. You will have to check what you need to do before you travel. Some states or territories may still require you to quarantine when you arrive. You will need to complete an Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart for Australia. The Australian Government has more information on: COVID-19 outbreak locations, and if there are any in New Zealand completing an Australia Travel Declaration before you depart whether you need a visa to enter Australia travel exemptions if you have been in New Zealand for less than 14 days, including if you are transiting. Make sure you check the requirements you need to meet with the Australian Government and with your airline. These can change at short notice. Travel to Australia — quarantine-free travel Guidance on travelling from New Zealand to Australia — Australian Government (external link) You can travel to New Zealand from Australia without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Normal immigration rules apply, and you will have to meet some eligibility criteria to travel quarantine-free. Travel from Australia to New Zealand — quarantine-free travel --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your GP. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your GP or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border New Zealanders overseas --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you're in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. From 11:59pm on 28 April 2021, travel from very high risk countries will be temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: India, Brazil, Papua New Guinea and Pakistan. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Currently, people from the Cook Islands and Niue can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. From 19 April, people in Australia can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. Quarantine-free travel Plan your travel to New Zealand It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you're in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. From 11:59pm on 28 April 2021, travel from very high risk countries will be temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: India, Brazil, Papua New Guinea and Pakistan. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Currently, people from the Cook Islands and Niue can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. From 19 April, people in Australia can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. Quarantine-free travel --- Section Separator --- Plan your travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
From 19 April, you can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. From 17 May, you can travel between the Cook islands and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. --- Section Separator --- From 19 April, you can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. From 17 May, you can travel between the Cook islands and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility.
What to do before you travel, what happens while you're travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in Australia. What to do before you travel, what happens while you're travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in New Zealand. Information about quarantine-free travel between Western Australia and New Zealand. This is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel, what happens while you're travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in Australia. What to do before you travel, what happens while you're travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in New Zealand. Information about quarantine-free travel between Western Australia and New Zealand. This is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel.
Home Travel and the border Quarantine-free travel Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed --- Section Separator --- When travelling to Australia, you’ll need to keep track of the COVID-19 situation and play your part in stopping any spread back to New Zealand. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we’d handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, such as timing and location, it’s useful to know what to expect. This is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. For example, case linked to the border — there is low risk of further transmission. Flights to and from Australia likely to continue. Follow local health instructions. Keep a record of your movements. If you’re unwell, stay home or in your accommodation. Get a COVID-19 test if you have any symptoms. For example, case of unknown source, but most likely linked to the border. State enters a short-term lockdown. Flights to and from affected state or states may be paused for up to 72 hours. Follow instructions from the state you're in. If you're unwell or have symptoms, get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline, and check your travel insurance. When returning to New Zealand, travellers from affected state may be asked to: get a pre-departure test before flying self-isolate and get a COVID-19 test if you are returning from a state where travel has been paused, you may go into managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand. For example, multiple cases of unknown source. State enters longer-term lockdown. Flights to and from affected state or states may be suspended for an extended period. Follow instructions from the state you're in. If you're unwell or have symptoms, get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline, and check your travel insurance. When returning to New Zealand, travellers may be asked to: get a pre-departure test before flying self-isolate and get a COVID-19 test if you are returning from a state where travel has been suspended, you may go into managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand. This guide may apply to one state or multiple states, depending on the case. Register with SafeTravel before you leave. Check your travel insurance and ticket conditions. You may need to stay longer. Be aware getting home is your responsibility. Follow official advice. Download a COVID-19 tracer app in the state you are in. Keep an eye on Covid19.govt.nz (this website). What to do when you arrive in Australia, including local COVID-19 websites and COVID-19 tracer apps How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed [PDF, 90 KB] --- Section Separator --- When travelling to Australia, you’ll need to keep track of the COVID-19 situation and play your part in stopping any spread back to New Zealand. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we’d handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, such as timing and location, it’s useful to know what to expect. This is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. --- Section Separator --- For example, case linked to the border — there is low risk of further transmission. Flights to and from Australia likely to continue. Follow local health instructions. Keep a record of your movements. If you’re unwell, stay home or in your accommodation. Get a COVID-19 test if you have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- For example, case of unknown source, but most likely linked to the border. State enters a short-term lockdown. Flights to and from affected state or states may be paused for up to 72 hours. Follow instructions from the state you're in. If you're unwell or have symptoms, get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline, and check your travel insurance. When returning to New Zealand, travellers from affected state may be asked to: get a pre-departure test before flying self-isolate and get a COVID-19 test if you are returning from a state where travel has been paused, you may go into managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- For example, multiple cases of unknown source. State enters longer-term lockdown. Flights to and from affected state or states may be suspended for an extended period. Follow instructions from the state you're in. If you're unwell or have symptoms, get a COVID-19 test. Watch for updates from your airline, and check your travel insurance. When returning to New Zealand, travellers may be asked to: get a pre-departure test before flying self-isolate and get a COVID-19 test if you are returning from a state where travel has been suspended, you may go into managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- This guide may apply to one state or multiple states, depending on the case. Register with SafeTravel before you leave. Check your travel insurance and ticket conditions. You may need to stay longer. Be aware getting home is your responsibility. --- Section Separator --- Follow official advice. Download a COVID-19 tracer app in the state you are in. Keep an eye on Covid19.govt.nz (this website). What to do when you arrive in Australia, including local COVID-19 websites and COVID-19 tracer apps --- Section Separator --- How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed [PDF, 90 KB] --- Section Separator --- Australia New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Western Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Western Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed Cook Islands Niue
Home Travel and the border Quarantine-free travel Australia Australia to New Zealand After you arrive --- Section Separator --- While you’re here in Aotearoa New Zealand, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. We strongly encourage travellers from Australia to understand how New Zealand is responding to COVID-19, and the rules and techniques we use to keep each other safe. You can find information on this website. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you’ve visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. There will be a QR code at the airport that you can scan to get the app. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. This means you can receive an alert through the app if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. If you register your contact details in the app, health authorities can contact you if you may have been exposed. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of the 3 Ws: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, most ferries (except the Cook Strait ferry) and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you’re offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you're helping keep everyone safe. COVID-19 symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell muscle aches. COVID-19 symptoms New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to any quarantine-free travel arrangement being paused for a time. The New Zealand Government may pause it while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Talk to your travel insurer about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption or illness. Have a plan for what to do if your return to Australia is delayed. You may need to be prepared for a longer stay in New Zealand than you planned. You may need to meet any costs for this — check with your travel insurer. You should also be prepared for the possibility of entering managed isolation or self-isolation on your return to Australia. Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check them regularly for updates that may affect you. Follow our social media Check with your airline for any changes to your travel conditions. Check Smartraveller.gov.au for information about travelling safely and what to do if you need help while in New Zealand. Smartraveller.gov.au (external link) If you're travelling back to Australia, find out what you need to do before you travel and what to expect while you're travelling. Travelling from New Zealand to Australia — quarantine-free travel What to do before you travel At the airport, while travelling and at the airport in New Zealand What to do after you arrive in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- While you’re here in Aotearoa New Zealand, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. We strongly encourage travellers from Australia to understand how New Zealand is responding to COVID-19, and the rules and techniques we use to keep each other safe. You can find information on this website. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. --- Section Separator --- Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you’ve visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. There will be a QR code at the airport that you can scan to get the app. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. This means you can receive an alert through the app if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. If you register your contact details in the app, health authorities can contact you if you may have been exposed. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of the 3 Ws: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, most ferries (except the Cook Strait ferry) and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you’re offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you're helping keep everyone safe. COVID-19 symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell muscle aches. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to any quarantine-free travel arrangement being paused for a time. The New Zealand Government may pause it while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. Talk to your travel insurer about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption or illness. Have a plan for what to do if your return to Australia is delayed. You may need to be prepared for a longer stay in New Zealand than you planned. You may need to meet any costs for this — check with your travel insurer. You should also be prepared for the possibility of entering managed isolation or self-isolation on your return to Australia. --- Section Separator --- Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check them regularly for updates that may affect you. Follow our social media Check with your airline for any changes to your travel conditions. Check Smartraveller.gov.au for information about travelling safely and what to do if you need help while in New Zealand. Smartraveller.gov.au (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you're travelling back to Australia, find out what you need to do before you travel and what to expect while you're travelling. Travelling from New Zealand to Australia — quarantine-free travel --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel At the airport, while travelling and at the airport in New Zealand What to do after you arrive in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel Australia Cook Islands Niue Australia Cook Islands Niue Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Quarantine-free travel Australia Australia to New Zealand At the airport and travelling --- Section Separator --- You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. You will be asked these questions at the check-in kiosk. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a sore throat shortness of breath a runny nose loss of sense of smell, or a fever. If you are unwell, stay at home and call a doctor for advice. Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the online travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart Australia. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — please use Google Chrome or another browser. Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight to New Zealand, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in New Zealand, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You may need to go into a managed isolation facility. If you do, you may need to pay for your stay there. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand All travellers from quarantine-free flights, or ‘green flights’, will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you’re in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We strongly encourage travellers from Australia to understand how New Zealand is responding to COVID-19, and the rules and techniques we use to keep each other safe. You can find information on this website. About New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert system New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You’ll need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. What to do before you travel At the airport, while travelling and at the airport in New Zealand What to do after you arrive in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. You will be asked these questions at the check-in kiosk. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a sore throat shortness of breath a runny nose loss of sense of smell, or a fever. If you are unwell, stay at home and call a doctor for advice. Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the online travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart Australia. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — please use Google Chrome or another browser. Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) --- Section Separator --- Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight to New Zealand, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in New Zealand, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You may need to go into a managed isolation facility. If you do, you may need to pay for your stay there. --- Section Separator --- You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand All travellers from quarantine-free flights, or ‘green flights’, will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you’re in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We strongly encourage travellers from Australia to understand how New Zealand is responding to COVID-19, and the rules and techniques we use to keep each other safe. You can find information on this website. About New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert system New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You’ll need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel At the airport, while travelling and at the airport in New Zealand What to do after you arrive in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel Australia Cook Islands Niue Australia Cook Islands Niue Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Quarantine-free travel Australia Australia to New Zealand What to do before you travel --- Section Separator --- You can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. To travel to New Zealand quarantine-free you need to have spent the 14 full days before your date of departure in either Australia or New Zealand. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. All other normal entry requirements apply, for example immigration and biosecurity. Quarantine-free travel is only available when the New Zealand Government’s health preconditions have been met and when travel is low risk. Quarantine-free flights are sometimes called ‘green flights’. A green flight coming to New Zealand from Australia only carries passengers who have been in Australia or New Zealand in the past 14 days. These flights will also be flown by crew who have not flown on any high-risk routes for a set period of time. A ‘red flight’ carries passengers from countries outside of a quarantine-free travel arrangement, or from within a quarantine-free area with passengers that do not meet the eligibility criteria. Red flight passengers must enter managed isolation or quarantine when they arrive in New Zealand. It will not be possible to book a red flight from Australia to New Zealand from 19 April. Every flight from Australia to New Zealand from that time will be a green flight. Some airlines are continuing to operate red flights from other countries that transit Australia on route to New Zealand. When quarantine-free travel to New Zealand begins, people in Australia who meet the eligibility criteria can fly quarantine-free to New Zealand. If you’re outside Australia, you can fly quarantine-free to New Zealand once you have met Australia’s managed isolation and quarantine requirements. You will also need to meet immigration rules and eligibility criteria. Currently, quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Australian and New Zealand citizens may travel between Australia and New Zealand without a visa or New Zealand electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). All other travellers must hold a visa or NZeTA. Some people can travel to New Zealand without a visa if they get an NZeTA before they travel. You can travel to New Zealand on an NZeTA if you are travelling on a passport from a visa waiver country, you're a cruise ship passenger or you're a permanent resident of Australia. You must request your NZeTA before you travel. Request an NZeTA (external link) Citizens from other countries can also apply for a visa to enter New Zealand. Visas to enter New Zealand from Australia (external link) If you require a visa in order to travel to New Zealand, you can apply for one, provided you are in and intend to travel from a quarantine-free travel area when you apply. For example, if you intend to travel directly to New Zealand from the Cook Islands, you must be in the Cook Islands to apply for a visa under normal immigration requirements. Any visa granted for travel from within a quarantine-free travel area will only be valid for travel from within the quarantine-free travel area. If you travel outside of New Zealand or a quarantine-free travel area you will not be able to use this visa to re-enter New Zealand. For example, if you are granted a visa in Australia and then travel to Fiji, your visa will not allow you to re-enter New Zealand from Fiji. To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You meet immigration requirements. You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either Australia or New Zealand. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from Australia. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed on their behalf. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. You will be asked these questions at the check-in kiosk. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. The COVID-19 symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a sore throat shortness of breath a runny nose loss of sense of smell, or a fever. You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. The New Zealand Government has signalled that if there are community cases of COVID-19 in Australia and flights are paused, it may require people travelling to or returning to New Zealand to get tested for COVID-19 before travelling. If there is a change in Alert Level in New Zealand or the situation changes in Australia, Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and news websites will announce it. You can also find information here about what to do at different Alert Levels. If community cases occur in New Zealand or Australia, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to Australia is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You may also need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to Australia. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If you're about to return to New Zealand from Australia and the COVID-19 situation changes, you may need to enter managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from Australia, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in New Zealand if required. You need to ensure you can meet the entry criteria for Australia on your return. Immigration information at Department of Home Affairs — Australian Government (external link) Once quarantine-free travel begins, you will not be able to register for a voucher or book a place in MIQ. Quarantine-free flights will be excluded from the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you already have an MIQ booking and you are now travelling on a quarantine-free flight into New Zealand, please cancel your voucher. This frees up space for returnees from other countries. If you are not sure if your flight is quarantine free, talk to your airline. If you're arriving from Australia just before quarantine-free travel begins, you will still need to go into managed isolation and complete the full 14 days. Over 400,000 passports belonging to New Zealanders have expired since our borders closed last year. If you need to renew your passport, apply now to avoid the rush when quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and Australia opens on 19 April. Apply for a passport (external link) Processing times may be longer than usual. If you need to travel same day or within 2 days, call 0800 22 50 50 from within New Zealand or +64 4 462 0650 from overseas. What to do before you travel At the airport, while travelling and at the airport in New Zealand What to do after you arrive in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. To travel to New Zealand quarantine-free you need to have spent the 14 full days before your date of departure in either Australia or New Zealand. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. All other normal entry requirements apply, for example immigration and biosecurity. Quarantine-free travel is only available when the New Zealand Government’s health preconditions have been met and when travel is low risk. Quarantine-free flights are sometimes called ‘green flights’. A green flight coming to New Zealand from Australia only carries passengers who have been in Australia or New Zealand in the past 14 days. These flights will also be flown by crew who have not flown on any high-risk routes for a set period of time. A ‘red flight’ carries passengers from countries outside of a quarantine-free travel arrangement, or from within a quarantine-free area with passengers that do not meet the eligibility criteria. Red flight passengers must enter managed isolation or quarantine when they arrive in New Zealand. It will not be possible to book a red flight from Australia to New Zealand from 19 April. Every flight from Australia to New Zealand from that time will be a green flight. Some airlines are continuing to operate red flights from other countries that transit Australia on route to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- When quarantine-free travel to New Zealand begins, people in Australia who meet the eligibility criteria can fly quarantine-free to New Zealand. If you’re outside Australia, you can fly quarantine-free to New Zealand once you have met Australia’s managed isolation and quarantine requirements. You will also need to meet immigration rules and eligibility criteria. Currently, quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Australian and New Zealand citizens may travel between Australia and New Zealand without a visa or New Zealand electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). All other travellers must hold a visa or NZeTA. Some people can travel to New Zealand without a visa if they get an NZeTA before they travel. You can travel to New Zealand on an NZeTA if you are travelling on a passport from a visa waiver country, you're a cruise ship passenger or you're a permanent resident of Australia. You must request your NZeTA before you travel. Request an NZeTA (external link) Citizens from other countries can also apply for a visa to enter New Zealand. Visas to enter New Zealand from Australia (external link) If you require a visa in order to travel to New Zealand, you can apply for one, provided you are in and intend to travel from a quarantine-free travel area when you apply. For example, if you intend to travel directly to New Zealand from the Cook Islands, you must be in the Cook Islands to apply for a visa under normal immigration requirements. Any visa granted for travel from within a quarantine-free travel area will only be valid for travel from within the quarantine-free travel area. If you travel outside of New Zealand or a quarantine-free travel area you will not be able to use this visa to re-enter New Zealand. For example, if you are granted a visa in Australia and then travel to Fiji, your visa will not allow you to re-enter New Zealand from Fiji. --- Section Separator --- To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You meet immigration requirements. You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either Australia or New Zealand. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from Australia. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed on their behalf. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. You will be asked these questions at the check-in kiosk. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. The COVID-19 symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a sore throat shortness of breath a runny nose loss of sense of smell, or a fever. You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. The New Zealand Government has signalled that if there are community cases of COVID-19 in Australia and flights are paused, it may require people travelling to or returning to New Zealand to get tested for COVID-19 before travelling. --- Section Separator --- If there is a change in Alert Level in New Zealand or the situation changes in Australia, Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and news websites will announce it. You can also find information here about what to do at different Alert Levels. If community cases occur in New Zealand or Australia, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to Australia is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You may also need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to Australia. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If you're about to return to New Zealand from Australia and the COVID-19 situation changes, you may need to enter managed isolation when you arrive in New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from Australia, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in New Zealand if required. You need to ensure you can meet the entry criteria for Australia on your return. Immigration information at Department of Home Affairs — Australian Government (external link) --- Section Separator --- Once quarantine-free travel begins, you will not be able to register for a voucher or book a place in MIQ. Quarantine-free flights will be excluded from the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you already have an MIQ booking and you are now travelling on a quarantine-free flight into New Zealand, please cancel your voucher. This frees up space for returnees from other countries. If you are not sure if your flight is quarantine free, talk to your airline. If you're arriving from Australia just before quarantine-free travel begins, you will still need to go into managed isolation and complete the full 14 days. --- Section Separator --- Over 400,000 passports belonging to New Zealanders have expired since our borders closed last year. If you need to renew your passport, apply now to avoid the rush when quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and Australia opens on 19 April. Apply for a passport (external link) Processing times may be longer than usual. If you need to travel same day or within 2 days, call 0800 22 50 50 from within New Zealand or +64 4 462 0650 from overseas. --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel At the airport, while travelling and at the airport in New Zealand What to do after you arrive in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel Australia Cook Islands Niue Australia Cook Islands Niue Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Quarantine-free travel Australia New Zealand to Australia After you arrive --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands often with soap and water. Cover your coughs and sneezes, throw used tissues away and then wash your hands. Keep your distance from others. COVID-19 information for travellers arriving in the green travel zone — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell, stay in your accommodation and call a doctor for advice. If you want to talk to someone about your symptoms, call the National coronavirus and COVID-19 vaccine helpline on 1800 020 080 . Calls are free from Australia, and you can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There is an Australia-wide contact tracing app, but most states and territories use their own apps. Download and use the app for wherever you are to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you’re visiting safe. You can download and use most of these apps with a New Zealand SIM card. You may need an Australian SIM card or Australian contact details to use some of these apps. We recommend you keep the apps on your phone for up to 1 month, in case you receive an alert after you've left the state. If you cannot or choose not to use an app, make sure you sign in to businesses and venues with their alternative contact tracing system. Download contact tracing apps: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) — Check In CBR app (external link) New South Wales — Service NSW app (external link) Northern Territory — The Territory Check In app (external link) Queensland — Check In Qld app (external link) South Australia — mySA GOV app (external link) Tasmania — Check in TAS app (external link) Victoria — Service Victoria app (external link) Western Australia — SafeWA app (external link) You may need an Australian SIM card to create an account in SafeWA app If you cannot or choose not to use these apps, you need to to sign in to businesses and venues with their alternative contact tracing system. If you wish, you can also keep track of where you’ve been with your own pen and paper, a photo record or you could take a copy of the NZ COVID Tracer booklet with you. Download My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Each state or territory has its own rules, for example for gatherings, physical distancing, face coverings, testing and travel. Check the website of the state you’re in to find out what you need to do when you’re there. State and territory COVID-19 websites If you forgot to register at SafeTravel before you left New Zealand, we encourage you to do so now to get travel advice for Australia. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) If there is a change in Australia’s COVID-19 situation, for example cases in the community, check the COVID-19 website for the state or territory you’re in. They will tell you what you need to do. State and territory COVID-19 websites You should also check the Australian Government Department of Health website for advice. Department of Health — Australian Government (external link) Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check this website, your local COVID-19 website and news sources regularly for updates that may affect you. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we'd handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, like timing and location, it's useful to know what to expect. Here is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in Australia for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in Australia, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in Australia if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. Visit the Department of Health website for the latest advice, information and resources. Department of Health — Australian Government (external link) If you need information about COVID-19, call the National coronavirus and COVID-19 helpline for free on 1800 020 080 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. To find information about COVID-19, locations of interest, travel conditions (including domestic travel) and testing, visit the website for the state you’re in. Information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to New Zealand's or Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check them regularly for updates that may affect you. Follow our social media Check with your airline for any changes to your travel conditions. If you're travelling back to New Zealand, find out what you need to do before you travel and what to expect while you're travelling. Travelling from Australia to New Zealand — quarantine-free travel What to do before you travel At the airport and travelling What to do after you arrive in Australia --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands often with soap and water. Cover your coughs and sneezes, throw used tissues away and then wash your hands. Keep your distance from others. COVID-19 information for travellers arriving in the green travel zone — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell, stay in your accommodation and call a doctor for advice. If you want to talk to someone about your symptoms, call the National coronavirus and COVID-19 vaccine helpline on 1800 020 080 . Calls are free from Australia, and you can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There is an Australia-wide contact tracing app, but most states and territories use their own apps. Download and use the app for wherever you are to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you’re visiting safe. You can download and use most of these apps with a New Zealand SIM card. You may need an Australian SIM card or Australian contact details to use some of these apps. We recommend you keep the apps on your phone for up to 1 month, in case you receive an alert after you've left the state. If you cannot or choose not to use an app, make sure you sign in to businesses and venues with their alternative contact tracing system. Download contact tracing apps: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) — Check In CBR app (external link) New South Wales — Service NSW app (external link) Northern Territory — The Territory Check In app (external link) Queensland — Check In Qld app (external link) South Australia — mySA GOV app (external link) Tasmania — Check in TAS app (external link) Victoria — Service Victoria app (external link) Western Australia — SafeWA app (external link) You may need an Australian SIM card to create an account in SafeWA app If you cannot or choose not to use these apps, you need to to sign in to businesses and venues with their alternative contact tracing system. If you wish, you can also keep track of where you’ve been with your own pen and paper, a photo record or you could take a copy of the NZ COVID Tracer booklet with you. Download My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Each state or territory has its own rules, for example for gatherings, physical distancing, face coverings, testing and travel. Check the website of the state you’re in to find out what you need to do when you’re there. State and territory COVID-19 websites --- Section Separator --- If you forgot to register at SafeTravel before you left New Zealand, we encourage you to do so now to get travel advice for Australia. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- If there is a change in Australia’s COVID-19 situation, for example cases in the community, check the COVID-19 website for the state or territory you’re in. They will tell you what you need to do. State and territory COVID-19 websites You should also check the Australian Government Department of Health website for advice. Department of Health — Australian Government (external link) Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check this website, your local COVID-19 website and news sources regularly for updates that may affect you. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we'd handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, like timing and location, it's useful to know what to expect. Here is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in Australia for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in Australia, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in Australia if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Visit the Department of Health website for the latest advice, information and resources. Department of Health — Australian Government (external link) If you need information about COVID-19, call the National coronavirus and COVID-19 helpline for free on 1800 020 080 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. To find information about COVID-19, locations of interest, travel conditions (including domestic travel) and testing, visit the website for the state you’re in. Information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to New Zealand's or Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Check them regularly for updates that may affect you. Follow our social media Check with your airline for any changes to your travel conditions. --- Section Separator --- If you're travelling back to New Zealand, find out what you need to do before you travel and what to expect while you're travelling. Travelling from Australia to New Zealand — quarantine-free travel --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel At the airport and travelling What to do after you arrive in Australia --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel Australia Cook Islands Niue Australia Cook Islands Niue Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Quarantine-free travel Australia New Zealand to Australia At the airport and travelling --- Section Separator --- You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. We recommend you wear a face covering while you’re in the airport. If you are unwell, you should not travel. Stay at home, and call Healthline for advice on 0800 611 116 . At the airport, your airline will decide whether you should be allowed to board. Make sure you bring evidence of any pre-existing conditions (for example hayfever) when you check in, to avoid being denied boarding. Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering on the flight. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in Australia, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless you're exempt, you’ll need to wear a face covering while you’re in the airport. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) You may be screened for your health when you arrive in Australia. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. You will not come into contact with travellers from other countries. Check what you need to do for your next destination. Some states and territories may have requirements you need to meet, or may tell you to quarantine when you get there. Travel information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) What to do before you travel At the airport and travelling What to do after you arrive in Australia --- Section Separator --- You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. We recommend you wear a face covering while you’re in the airport. If you are unwell, you should not travel. Stay at home, and call Healthline for advice on 0800 611 116 . At the airport, your airline will decide whether you should be allowed to board. Make sure you bring evidence of any pre-existing conditions (for example hayfever) when you check in, to avoid being denied boarding. --- Section Separator --- Unless you are exempt, you must wear a face covering on the flight. You can choose to wear your own face covering or one provided by your airline. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in Australia, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. --- Section Separator --- Unless you're exempt, you’ll need to wear a face covering while you’re in the airport. Exemptions for masks while travelling — Australian Government (external link) You may be screened for your health when you arrive in Australia. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. You will not come into contact with travellers from other countries. --- Section Separator --- Check what you need to do for your next destination. Some states and territories may have requirements you need to meet, or may tell you to quarantine when you get there. Travel information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel At the airport and travelling What to do after you arrive in Australia --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel Australia Cook Islands Niue Australia Cook Islands Niue Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Quarantine-free travel Australia New Zealand to Australia What to do before you travel --- Section Separator --- You can already travel from New Zealand to most states in Australia without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. From 19 April, travellers from Australia can travel to New Zealand without having to go into managed isolation. All other normal entry requirements, for example immigration and biosecurity, apply. All states and territories are participating in quarantine-free travel with New Zealand. People in New Zealand who meet the eligibility criteria can fly quarantine-free to most states in Australia. If you’re outside New Zealand, you can fly quarantine-free to Australia once you have met New Zealand’s managed isolation and quarantine requirements. If you're travelling from a country that has a quarantine-free arrangement with New Zealand, for example the Cook Islands, you must stay in New Zealand for 14 days before you can continue your journey to Australia. You will also need to meet immigration rules and eligibility criteria. Currently, quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Normal immigration rules apply. This means if you usually need a visa, then you will need one to fly quarantine-free to Australia. If you plan to travel to Australia and return to New Zealand, you will need to make sure you meet the visa and entry requirements for Australia before you travel and ensure you have a valid New Zealand visa or NZeTA to return to New Zealand. Visas to enter Australia (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder in New Zealand, you should be aware that you need to meet New Zealand immigration requirements in order to return to New Zealand. This means you need to have a ‘multiple entry’ visa that gives permission to leave New Zealand and return, provided all entry requirements are met. To travel to Australia on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet some criteria. It is your responsibility to check the eligibility criteria for entering Australia. You will also need to check that the state or territory you want to land in, or travel onwards to, is accepting quarantine-free flights from New Zealand. The requirements for entering Australia could change at short notice. New Zealand safe travel zone — Australian Government (external link) COVID-19 advice for international travellers — Australian Government (external link) Check the restrictions of Australian states or territories Before you travel to Australia, you need to complete the Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart. Australia Travel Declaration (external link) You may need to complete a travel declaration or apply for a travel permit for the state or territory you're travelling to. Travel declarations and travel permits You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to travel to Australia on a quarantine-free flight. Australia has sometimes introduced requirements for testing on arrival for people travelling from New Zealand. You should regularly check the requirements of the state you're arriving in. Australia’s states and territories may have their own restrictions and requirements, for example for pre-departure testing. Check what you need to do and what you need to know before you travel. You should also check what you need to do if you are travelling between states in Australia, as you may need to meet some requirements. Travel information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Some states and territories require you to complete or apply for a travel permit or travel declaration. This is in addition to the Australia Travel Declaration that you must complete before you can enter Australia. Some states only require you to complete one when there have been outbreaks of COVID-19. However, some states have made it compulsory for everyone to complete one, whether you're travelling from New Zealand or from another state. Make sure you check what you need to do before you travel to any state or territory in Australia, and that you complete any declarations or permits before you depart. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for Australia. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) If there is a change in Alert Level in New Zealand or the situation changes in Australia, Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and news websites will announce it. You can also find information here about what to do at different Alert Levels. If community cases occur in New Zealand or Australia, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we'd handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, like timing and location, it's useful to know what to expect. Here is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed If there is a change in Australia’s COVID-19 situation, for example cases in the community, check the COVID-19 website for the state or territory you’re in. They will tell you what you need to do. Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in Australia for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in Australia, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in Australia if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. Over 400,000 passports belonging to New Zealanders have expired since our borders closed last year. If you need to renew your passport, apply now to avoid the rush when quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and Australia opens on 19 April. Apply for a passport (external link) Processing times may be longer than usual. If you need to travel same day or within 2 days, call 0800 22 50 50 from within New Zealand or +64 4 462 0650 from overseas. What to do before you travel At the airport, while travelling and at the airport in Australia What to do after you arrive in Australia --- Section Separator --- You can already travel from New Zealand to most states in Australia without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. From 19 April, travellers from Australia can travel to New Zealand without having to go into managed isolation. All other normal entry requirements, for example immigration and biosecurity, apply. --- Section Separator --- All states and territories are participating in quarantine-free travel with New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- People in New Zealand who meet the eligibility criteria can fly quarantine-free to most states in Australia. If you’re outside New Zealand, you can fly quarantine-free to Australia once you have met New Zealand’s managed isolation and quarantine requirements. If you're travelling from a country that has a quarantine-free arrangement with New Zealand, for example the Cook Islands, you must stay in New Zealand for 14 days before you can continue your journey to Australia. You will also need to meet immigration rules and eligibility criteria. Currently, quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Normal immigration rules apply. This means if you usually need a visa, then you will need one to fly quarantine-free to Australia. If you plan to travel to Australia and return to New Zealand, you will need to make sure you meet the visa and entry requirements for Australia before you travel and ensure you have a valid New Zealand visa or NZeTA to return to New Zealand. Visas to enter Australia (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder in New Zealand, you should be aware that you need to meet New Zealand immigration requirements in order to return to New Zealand. This means you need to have a ‘multiple entry’ visa that gives permission to leave New Zealand and return, provided all entry requirements are met. --- Section Separator --- To travel to Australia on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet some criteria. It is your responsibility to check the eligibility criteria for entering Australia. You will also need to check that the state or territory you want to land in, or travel onwards to, is accepting quarantine-free flights from New Zealand. The requirements for entering Australia could change at short notice. New Zealand safe travel zone — Australian Government (external link) COVID-19 advice for international travellers — Australian Government (external link) Check the restrictions of Australian states or territories Before you travel to Australia, you need to complete the Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before you depart. Australia Travel Declaration (external link) You may need to complete a travel declaration or apply for a travel permit for the state or territory you're travelling to. Travel declarations and travel permits You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to travel to Australia on a quarantine-free flight. Australia has sometimes introduced requirements for testing on arrival for people travelling from New Zealand. You should regularly check the requirements of the state you're arriving in. --- Section Separator --- Australia’s states and territories may have their own restrictions and requirements, for example for pre-departure testing. Check what you need to do and what you need to know before you travel. You should also check what you need to do if you are travelling between states in Australia, as you may need to meet some requirements. Travel information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Some states and territories require you to complete or apply for a travel permit or travel declaration. This is in addition to the Australia Travel Declaration that you must complete before you can enter Australia. Some states only require you to complete one when there have been outbreaks of COVID-19. However, some states have made it compulsory for everyone to complete one, whether you're travelling from New Zealand or from another state. Make sure you check what you need to do before you travel to any state or territory in Australia, and that you complete any declarations or permits before you depart. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for Australia. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- If there is a change in Alert Level in New Zealand or the situation changes in Australia, Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and news websites will announce it. You can also find information here about what to do at different Alert Levels. If community cases occur in New Zealand or Australia, the Government could pause quarantine-free travel for a time to assess the risk or it could suspend travel for a longer period of time. Travellers should have a plan and be prepared for travel plans to be disrupted. We cannot predict when or how a new case might appear in any Australian state. But we do have a plan for how we'd handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances, like timing and location, it's useful to know what to expect. Here is a guide to what might occur and what you could be asked to do in the event there are COVID-19 cases in Australia when you travel. How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed If there is a change in Australia’s COVID-19 situation, for example cases in the community, check the COVID-19 website for the state or territory you’re in. They will tell you what you need to do. Covid19.govt.nz (this website) and our social media channels will announce changes to Australia's COVID-19 situation and to quarantine-free travel. Information about COVID-19 by state or territory: Australian Capital Territory (ACT) (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or Australia could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in Australia for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in Australia, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in Australia if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Over 400,000 passports belonging to New Zealanders have expired since our borders closed last year. If you need to renew your passport, apply now to avoid the rush when quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and Australia opens on 19 April. Apply for a passport (external link) Processing times may be longer than usual. If you need to travel same day or within 2 days, call 0800 22 50 50 from within New Zealand or +64 4 462 0650 from overseas. --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel At the airport, while travelling and at the airport in Australia What to do after you arrive in Australia --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel Australia Cook Islands Niue Australia Cook Islands Niue Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Quarantine-free travel Australia Western Australia --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel between Western Australia and New Zealand will resume soon. The New Zealand Government initially paused quarantine-free travel with Western Australia after the announcement of a 3 day lockdown in Perth, Western Australia. The lockdown began at 12:01am on Saturday 24 April (Australia time). It ended at 12:01am on Tuesday 27 April. It paused travel again on the evening of Saturday 1 May. Check the locations of interest at the Western Australia Government website. Locations visited by confirmed COVID-19 cases — Western Australia Government (external link) If you were at a location of interest at a specified time and you are still in Perth and are planning to travel to New Zealand, you are asked to follow the Western Australia health advice for isolation and testing on the Western Australia Government website. Anyone who has been at a location of interest cannot travel to New Zealand from Australia within 14 days of exposure. This includes any additional locations of interest that have not been determined yet. Check the locations of interest at the Western Australia Government website. Locations visited by confirmed COVID-19 cases — Western Australia Government (external link) If you have recently arrived in New Zealand from Australia and were in a location of interest at the specified time, please self-isolate immediately and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for information on when you should get a test. Flights to resume from Western Australia (external link) — 2 May 2021 Flights from Western Australia to New Zealand paused (external link) — 1 May 2021 Travel pause with Western Australia will lift on 28 April (external link) — 27 April 2021 Perth travel pause decision due Tuesday 27 April (external link) — 26 April 2021 Response to Perth 3-day lockdown (external link) — 23 April 2021 Information if you're in Western Australia (external link) Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and Western Australia — WA Government (external link) --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel between Western Australia and New Zealand will resume soon. The New Zealand Government initially paused quarantine-free travel with Western Australia after the announcement of a 3 day lockdown in Perth, Western Australia. The lockdown began at 12:01am on Saturday 24 April (Australia time). It ended at 12:01am on Tuesday 27 April. It paused travel again on the evening of Saturday 1 May. --- Section Separator --- Check the locations of interest at the Western Australia Government website. Locations visited by confirmed COVID-19 cases — Western Australia Government (external link) If you were at a location of interest at a specified time and you are still in Perth and are planning to travel to New Zealand, you are asked to follow the Western Australia health advice for isolation and testing on the Western Australia Government website. Anyone who has been at a location of interest cannot travel to New Zealand from Australia within 14 days of exposure. This includes any additional locations of interest that have not been determined yet. Check the locations of interest at the Western Australia Government website. Locations visited by confirmed COVID-19 cases — Western Australia Government (external link) If you have recently arrived in New Zealand from Australia and were in a location of interest at the specified time, please self-isolate immediately and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for information on when you should get a test. --- Section Separator --- Flights to resume from Western Australia (external link) — 2 May 2021 Flights from Western Australia to New Zealand paused (external link) — 1 May 2021 Travel pause with Western Australia will lift on 28 April (external link) — 27 April 2021 Perth travel pause decision due Tuesday 27 April (external link) — 26 April 2021 Response to Perth 3-day lockdown (external link) — 23 April 2021 Information if you're in Western Australia (external link) Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and Western Australia — WA Government (external link) --- Section Separator --- Australia New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Western Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed New Zealand to Australia Australia to New Zealand Western Australia How a COVID-19 case in Australia would be managed Cook Islands Niue
From 17 May, you can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. From 17 May, you can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. --- Section Separator --- From 17 May, you can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. From 17 May, you can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive.
Home Travel and the border Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- From 17 May, you can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in New Zealand can travel quarantine-free to the Cook Islands, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. If you're in Australia, you must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands. The same rule applies in the opposite direction. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. To travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Normal immigration rules apply. This means that if you usually need a visa to enter the Cook Islands, then you will need one to travel quarantine-free. New Zealand citizens do not need a visa to travel to the Cook Islands. Travel information for the Cook Islands (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You must check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand fom the Cook Islands. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands — Immigration New Zealand (external link) You do not need a negative pre-departure COVID-19 test to travel to the Cook Islands. Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. You may be screened for your health when you arrive in the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. While you’re in the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you’re visiting safe from COVID-19. Follow the guidelines for the Cook Islands — you can find information on the Cook Islands Government website. COVID-19 Cook Islands response — Cook Islands Government (external link) Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser regularly, and cough or sneeze into your elbow. Avoid touching your face with unwashed hands. Avoid hugs, kisses or shaking hands. Maintain physical distancing from others as much as possible. If you feel unwell while in the Cook Islands, stay in your accommodation and put a face covering on, if you have one. Do not use public transport to go home. Call the Cook Islands Healthline on 29667 for advice about what to do next. The Cook Islands uses a system that's a little different to New Zealand: Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the CookSafe+ app to keep track of the people you've been near. Keep reading to find out how to use your CookSafe QR Card, as this part is a little different to New Zealand. When you arrive, register for your unique CookSafe QR Card, which is a physical card you should keep with you at all times. CookSafe stations will be set up at most locations, and you should use your QR Card to scan in. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. More information about the CookSafe QR Card (external link) Download the CookSafe+ app to help with contact tracing if needed. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) CookSafe+ uses Bluetooth technology, and it works in the same way as Bluetooth tracing on our NZ COVID Tracer app. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in one contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you're in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall one app to be able to use the other one. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you've been and who you've seen with your own pen and paper or keep a photo record. The CookSafe+ app does not remove the need to scan in with your CookSafe QR Card. Remember to take your card with you everywhere you go. Any information (or 'keys') that is sent or collected from your phone using one app can be accessed with the other app. The apps work together to make sure that whether you're in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, you can receive an alert if you've been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. Information about CookSafe+ app (external link) The Cook Islands has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. About the Alert Level system (external link) Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in the Cook Islands for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in the Cook Islands, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the Cook Islands. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. How to travel back to New Zealand quarantine-free --- Section Separator --- From 17 May, you can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in New Zealand can travel quarantine-free to the Cook Islands, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. If you're in Australia, you must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands. The same rule applies in the opposite direction. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. --- Section Separator --- To travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Normal immigration rules apply. This means that if you usually need a visa to enter the Cook Islands, then you will need one to travel quarantine-free. New Zealand citizens do not need a visa to travel to the Cook Islands. Travel information for the Cook Islands (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You must check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand fom the Cook Islands. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands — Immigration New Zealand (external link) You do not need a negative pre-departure COVID-19 test to travel to the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. You may be screened for your health when you arrive in the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. --- Section Separator --- While you’re in the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you’re visiting safe from COVID-19. Follow the guidelines for the Cook Islands — you can find information on the Cook Islands Government website. COVID-19 Cook Islands response — Cook Islands Government (external link) Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser regularly, and cough or sneeze into your elbow. Avoid touching your face with unwashed hands. Avoid hugs, kisses or shaking hands. Maintain physical distancing from others as much as possible. If you feel unwell while in the Cook Islands, stay in your accommodation and put a face covering on, if you have one. Do not use public transport to go home. Call the Cook Islands Healthline on 29667 for advice about what to do next. The Cook Islands uses a system that's a little different to New Zealand: Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the CookSafe+ app to keep track of the people you've been near. Keep reading to find out how to use your CookSafe QR Card, as this part is a little different to New Zealand. When you arrive, register for your unique CookSafe QR Card, which is a physical card you should keep with you at all times. CookSafe stations will be set up at most locations, and you should use your QR Card to scan in. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. More information about the CookSafe QR Card (external link) Download the CookSafe+ app to help with contact tracing if needed. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) CookSafe+ uses Bluetooth technology, and it works in the same way as Bluetooth tracing on our NZ COVID Tracer app. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in one contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you're in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall one app to be able to use the other one. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you've been and who you've seen with your own pen and paper or keep a photo record. The CookSafe+ app does not remove the need to scan in with your CookSafe QR Card. Remember to take your card with you everywhere you go. Any information (or 'keys') that is sent or collected from your phone using one app can be accessed with the other app. The apps work together to make sure that whether you're in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, you can receive an alert if you've been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. Information about CookSafe+ app (external link) The Cook Islands has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. About the Alert Level system (external link) --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You may need to stay in the Cook Islands for longer than you planned, and you will need to meet any costs for this. Government assistance is unlikely to be available. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in the Cook Islands, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. If this happens, you will need to pay for your stay there. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you're a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the Cook Islands. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- How to travel back to New Zealand quarantine-free --- Section Separator --- Australia Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand Niue
Home Travel and the border Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- From 17 May, you can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in the Cook islands can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to either Australia or the Cook Islands. To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa — Immigration New Zealand (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed on their behalf. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. The COVID-19 symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a sore throat shortness of breath a runny nose loss of sense of smell, or a fever. You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the online travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you’re in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you’ve been. New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You’ll need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you’ve visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. New Zealand's contact tracing system is a little different to the CookSafe+ app and CookSafe QR code Card system. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of the 3 Ws: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, most ferries (except the Cook Strait ferry) and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you’re offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you're helping keep everyone safe. New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. How to travel back to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- From 17 May, you can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Anyone in the Cook islands can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand, as long as they meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial aircraft only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to either Australia or the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa — Immigration New Zealand (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart from the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed on their behalf. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. The COVID-19 symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a sore throat shortness of breath a runny nose loss of sense of smell, or a fever. You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face covering on the flight. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You should also wear your face covering while in your departure and arrival airports. You’ll notice extra precautions at the border. Please cooperate with requests from staff. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the online travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, you will be isolated from others. When you arrive in the Cook Islands, your health will be assessed, and decisions will be made about what happens next for you and possibly for others on the flight. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. Signs will direct you to Customs and baggage claim. You’ll also see health professionals stationed around the airport. They will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you’re in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you’ve been. New Zealand’s biosecurity checks at the border will operate as usual under quarantine-free arrangements. You’ll need to declare or dispose of any goods that could carry pests or diseases. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you’ve visited. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster and stop the virus from spreading when a case of COVID-19 is detected. New Zealand's contact tracing system is a little different to the CookSafe+ app and CookSafe QR code Card system. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of the 3 Ws: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. Public transport includes buses, trains, most ferries (except the Cook Strait ferry) and jet boats. We also encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 611 116 for advice. If you’re offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you're helping keep everyone safe. New Zealand has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. Announcements, changes to Alert Levels and what to do at different Alert Levels will be on this website. About the Alert Level system --- Section Separator --- Community cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand or the Cook Islands could lead to the Government pausing any quarantine-free travel arrangements while it gathers information about the risk. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- How to travel back to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Australia Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand Niue
Home Travel and the border Transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) You should check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) If you're travelling to New Zealand, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. Travellers from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands do not need to get pre-departure tests. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- You should check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from Managed Isolation and Quarantine. Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you're travelling to New Zealand, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. Travellers from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands do not need to get pre-departure tests. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Due to a current surge in cases of returnees, the Government has created a new ‘very high risk’ country category. This will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: India, Brazil, Papua New Guinea and Pakistan. This will take effect from 11:59pm (NZT) on 28 April 2021. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. From 11:59pm on 28 April 2021, travel from very high risk countries will be temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: India, Brazil, Papua New Guinea and Pakistan. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Currently, people from the Cook Islands and Niue can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. From 19 April, people in Australia can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. Quarantine-free travel If you're travelling to New Zealand, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. Travellers from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands do not need to get pre-departure tests. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Due to a current surge in cases of returnees, the Government has created a new ‘very high risk’ country category. This will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: India, Brazil, Papua New Guinea and Pakistan. This will take effect from 11:59pm (NZT) on 28 April 2021. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) Many countries around the world have closed their borders and imposed stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. We recommend you contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. Contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from or transiting through areas affected by border measures. Cruise ships continue to be banned from entering New Zealand. Vessels can enter New Zealand if all aboard are New Zealand citizens or permanent residents. There are exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Visa information for critical workers in the maritime sector (external link) If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) Quarantine-free travel allows you to travel to and enter countries that are participating in a quarantine-free travel arrangement without needing to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive. You can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to enter a managed isolation facility in either destination. Quarantine-free travel with Australia You can now travel from the Cook Islands or Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands or Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands or Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands Quarantine-free travel from Niue You will not be able to go to the shops when you first arrive in New Zealand, or while you are in managed isolation or quarantine. What to bring with you to New Zealand (external link) Keep yourself, your whānau and those around you safe while travelling to New Zealand. Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. Doing these things will help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it home with you. What happens when you arrive back in New Zealand depends on whether you arrive by air or sea. Arriving in New Zealand and being transferred to a managed isolation or quarantine facility (external link) Entering a managed isolation facility, and what to expect (external link) When you arrive by air, you will be screened for cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms at the airport. If you have symptoms or are waiting for the results of a test, you will go to a quarantine facility. Otherwise, you will go to a managed isolation facility. Both types of facilities are in hotels. When you arrive by sea, you may complete your isolation on your vessel. International transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Due to a current surge in cases of returnees, the Government has created a new ‘very high risk’ country category. This will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: India, Brazil, Papua New Guinea and Pakistan. This will take effect from 11:59pm (NZT) on 28 April 2021. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. From 11:59pm on 28 April 2021, travel from very high risk countries will be temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, and parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: India, Brazil, Papua New Guinea and Pakistan. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) There are exceptions for people who can travel to New Zealand under a quarantine-free travel arrangement. Currently, people from the Cook Islands and Niue can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. From 19 April, people in Australia can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. Quarantine-free travel --- Section Separator --- If you're travelling to New Zealand, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. Travellers from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands do not need to get pre-departure tests. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Due to a current surge in cases of returnees, the Government has created a new ‘very high risk’ country category. This will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: India, Brazil, Papua New Guinea and Pakistan. This will take effect from 11:59pm (NZT) on 28 April 2021. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries --- Section Separator --- It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine, unless you're arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- Many countries around the world have closed their borders and imposed stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. We recommend you contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. Contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from or transiting through areas affected by border measures. Cruise ships continue to be banned from entering New Zealand. Vessels can enter New Zealand if all aboard are New Zealand citizens or permanent residents. There are exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Visa information for critical workers in the maritime sector (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel allows you to travel to and enter countries that are participating in a quarantine-free travel arrangement without needing to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive. You can travel between Australia and New Zealand without having to enter a managed isolation facility in either destination. Quarantine-free travel with Australia You can now travel from the Cook Islands or Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from the Cook Islands or Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands or Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel from the Cook Islands Quarantine-free travel from Niue --- Section Separator --- You will not be able to go to the shops when you first arrive in New Zealand, or while you are in managed isolation or quarantine. What to bring with you to New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Keep yourself, your whānau and those around you safe while travelling to New Zealand. Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. Doing these things will help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it home with you. --- Section Separator --- What happens when you arrive back in New Zealand depends on whether you arrive by air or sea. Arriving in New Zealand and being transferred to a managed isolation or quarantine facility (external link) Entering a managed isolation facility, and what to expect (external link) When you arrive by air, you will be screened for cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms at the airport. If you have symptoms or are waiting for the results of a test, you will go to a quarantine facility. Otherwise, you will go to a managed isolation facility. Both types of facilities are in hotels. When you arrive by sea, you may complete your isolation on your vessel. --- Section Separator --- International transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel Travel to New Zealand Restrictions on travel from very high risk countries Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Restrictions on travel from very high risk countries Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine --- Section Separator --- While our borders are closed, New Zealand citizens and permanent residents have a legal right to come home. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. By completing 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. Over 100,000 people have completed their managed isolation stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. When you arrive in New Zealand you are screened for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you are flying quarantine-free to New Zealand, then you will not enter managed isolation and so you do not need a voucher. Get your voucher by registering on the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) From 24 April 2021, Managed Isolation and Quarantine is introducing a ‘cohorting’ system to its facilities. Cohorting means that returnees arriving in New Zealand in a 96-hour window will all go to the same facility. They will do this until the facility is full or the 96 hours are over. After this, no more returnees will enter the facility until the last of the group has completed their stay and the facility has been cleaned. Cohorting will keep recent arrivals in the same facility together, and will keep those who are just completing their stay away from new arrivals. All facilities should be using the cohorting system from Sunday 16 May. You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in managed isolation or quarantine. The Government recovers some of the costs for managed isolation. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for managed isolation and who needs to pay (external link) You are tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of your stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You are exempt from a day 0/1 test if you arrive from Australia, Antarctica or most Pacific islands. You may be asked to remain in your room until the results of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight to a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your managed isolation facility to complete the rest of your stay. You will be tested for COVID-19 again on day 3 and day 12 of your stay. There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. We have put in place a robust system for exemptions from managed isolation. Releases from managed isolation are only issued in very limited circumstances, and where the public health risk is low and can be managed. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website, run by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE), has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply Exemptions from managed isolation and how to apply (external link) From 16 April, your journey through Auckland Airport will be different to what it has been recently, and it may take longer. This is to keep international travellers who are going into managed isolation separate from those travelling quarantine-free. If you’re flying into Auckland and entering managed isolation, you will proceed through the airport and be transported to your facility without your checked baggage. Your checked baggage will be collected and delivered to your facility after you arrive there. If you’re going into a facility in Auckland, your baggage will take about 4 to 6 hours to arrive. If you’re going to Hamilton or Rotorua, the wait could be 6 to 8 hours. If you’re going to Wellington or Christchurch, your baggage will travel with you on your flight. Make sure you have everything you need for your arrival with you in your cabin luggage. This could include essential medicines or supplies for children. Changes to international arrival procedures at Auckland Airport (external link) --- Section Separator --- While our borders are closed, New Zealand citizens and permanent residents have a legal right to come home. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. By completing 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. Over 100,000 people have completed their managed isolation stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. --- Section Separator --- When you arrive in New Zealand you are screened for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. --- Section Separator --- You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you are flying quarantine-free to New Zealand, then you will not enter managed isolation and so you do not need a voucher. Get your voucher by registering on the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you keep checking the Managed Isolation Allocation System for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 14 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- From 24 April 2021, Managed Isolation and Quarantine is introducing a ‘cohorting’ system to its facilities. Cohorting means that returnees arriving in New Zealand in a 96-hour window will all go to the same facility. They will do this until the facility is full or the 96 hours are over. After this, no more returnees will enter the facility until the last of the group has completed their stay and the facility has been cleaned. Cohorting will keep recent arrivals in the same facility together, and will keep those who are just completing their stay away from new arrivals. All facilities should be using the cohorting system from Sunday 16 May. --- Section Separator --- You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in managed isolation or quarantine. The Government recovers some of the costs for managed isolation. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for managed isolation and who needs to pay (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of your stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You are exempt from a day 0/1 test if you arrive from Australia, Antarctica or most Pacific islands. You may be asked to remain in your room until the results of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight to a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your managed isolation facility to complete the rest of your stay. You will be tested for COVID-19 again on day 3 and day 12 of your stay. --- Section Separator --- There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. We have put in place a robust system for exemptions from managed isolation. Releases from managed isolation are only issued in very limited circumstances, and where the public health risk is low and can be managed. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website, run by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE), has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply Exemptions from managed isolation and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- From 16 April, your journey through Auckland Airport will be different to what it has been recently, and it may take longer. This is to keep international travellers who are going into managed isolation separate from those travelling quarantine-free. If you’re flying into Auckland and entering managed isolation, you will proceed through the airport and be transported to your facility without your checked baggage. Your checked baggage will be collected and delivered to your facility after you arrive there. If you’re going into a facility in Auckland, your baggage will take about 4 to 6 hours to arrive. If you’re going to Hamilton or Rotorua, the wait could be 6 to 8 hours. If you’re going to Wellington or Christchurch, your baggage will travel with you on your flight. Make sure you have everything you need for your arrival with you in your cabin luggage. This could include essential medicines or supplies for children. Changes to international arrival procedures at Auckland Airport (external link) --- Section Separator --- Restrictions on travel from very high risk countries Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for bringing your test results or medical certificate to the airport and providing the required information. Without the information you may be denied boarding and be subject to an infringement fine. Testing labs must be able to issue you a dated report for you to present. It should have: traveller’s name traveller’s date of birth and/or passport number date and time the test was conducted name of testing lab test type test result. Either a hard copy or an electronic copy (email/text message) of your negative test result, or a Fit to Fly Certificate, will be accepted. A text message will be accepted only if it includes an image of the laboratory result form. Hold on to all documents and treat your negative test results and Managed Isolation voucher with the same importance as your passport — you may be asked to show these as you transit and on arrival in New Zealand. Pre-departure testing is an additional measure to further reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases in New Zealand, in line with our elimination strategy. It is complementary to existing testing requirements, such as day 0/1 testing, and does not duplicate them. Travellers to New Zealand are required to undergo day 0/1 testing within 24 hours of arriving at a managed isolation and quarantine facility. Travellers from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands are exempt from day 0/1 testing. If you’re asked for evidence of your negative COVID-19 test result or a medical certificate, and you cannot provide it, you may be denied boarding. You will be asked to provide this information to a Customs officer when entering New Zealand. All travellers arriving in New Zealand after 8 February 2021 without evidence of a negative approved test may incur an infringement offence fee or a fine not exceeding $1,000. The pre-departure test is a measure to keep us all safe. Most airlines already require travellers to have a pre-departure test and provide evidence of a negative result before boarding a plane. Pre-departure tests are also a legal requirement for most countries that are transit hubs. --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for bringing your test results or medical certificate to the airport and providing the required information. Without the information you may be denied boarding and be subject to an infringement fine. Testing labs must be able to issue you a dated report for you to present. It should have: traveller’s name traveller’s date of birth and/or passport number date and time the test was conducted name of testing lab test type test result. Either a hard copy or an electronic copy (email/text message) of your negative test result, or a Fit to Fly Certificate, will be accepted. A text message will be accepted only if it includes an image of the laboratory result form. Hold on to all documents and treat your negative test results and Managed Isolation voucher with the same importance as your passport — you may be asked to show these as you transit and on arrival in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Pre-departure testing is an additional measure to further reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases in New Zealand, in line with our elimination strategy. It is complementary to existing testing requirements, such as day 0/1 testing, and does not duplicate them. Travellers to New Zealand are required to undergo day 0/1 testing within 24 hours of arriving at a managed isolation and quarantine facility. Travellers from Australia, Antarctica and most Pacific islands are exempt from day 0/1 testing. --- Section Separator --- If you’re asked for evidence of your negative COVID-19 test result or a medical certificate, and you cannot provide it, you may be denied boarding. You will be asked to provide this information to a Customs officer when entering New Zealand. All travellers arriving in New Zealand after 8 February 2021 without evidence of a negative approved test may incur an infringement offence fee or a fine not exceeding $1,000. The pre-departure test is a measure to keep us all safe. Most airlines already require travellers to have a pre-departure test and provide evidence of a negative result before boarding a plane. Pre-departure tests are also a legal requirement for most countries that are transit hubs. --- Section Separator --- Restrictions on travel from very high risk countries Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Who needs a pre-departure test before arriving in NZ What to do before you travel to NZ — pre-departure testing After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing Who needs a pre-departure test before arriving in NZ What to do before you travel to NZ — pre-departure testing After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand What to do before you travel to NZ — pre-departure testing --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has confirmed the following types of tests are acceptable by the New Zealand Director-General of Health: PCR test (including RT-PCR) LAMP, or antigen tests (they may also be referred to as viral antigen tests). All tests must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. If you choose to take an at-home COVID-19 test, it must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. Testing labs must be able to issue you a dated report for you to present. It should have: traveller’s name traveller’s date of birth and/or passport number date and time the test was conducted name of testing lab test type test result. You should also check the requirements of other countries you are going to be transiting through. They may have requirements that are different to what New Zealand requires. Learn more about the Ministry of Health testing requirements (external link) The Government has created a new ‘very high risk’ country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. From 11:59pm on 28 April 2021, a ll travellers from very high risk countries must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test from an accredited laboratory. The test must be taken within 72 hours of departure. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries (external link) If you are unable to take a test for medical reasons you are required to provide a medical certificate. A Fit to Fly Certificate will be accepted as proof of pre-departure testing documentation if it is consistent with both the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Order requirements and the subsequent Gazetted requirements regarding pre-departure testing. Acceptable Fit to Fly Certificates must contain the following six elements: Name of person tested Date of birth of person tested and/or the passport number of the person tested Name of the laboratory at which the COVID-19 test was processed Written confirmation from the laboratory of the result of a COVID-19 test Written confirmation of: the date on which the COVID-19 test was conducted, and the time at which the COVID-19 test was conducted — if necessary to establish that the COVID-19 test was undertaken within the 72-hour period before the person’s journey beginning due to the date of the test the date on which the COVID-19 test was conducted, and the time at which the COVID-19 test was conducted — if necessary to establish that the COVID-19 test was undertaken within the 72-hour period before the person’s journey beginning due to the date of the test Written confirmation of the type of test that was conducted If your test result record does not provide this information, you may be prevented from boarding the aircraft. Please ensure this information will be provided to you by your testing facility when you get tested. You can get tested at a range of airports, or from private laboratories. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. Private providers for coronavirus testing (external link) Book a test at Heathrow Airport (external link) Learn more about CDC's recommendations for testing and international air travel (external link) You should contact the local health authority of the country that you are in for information about COVID-19 testing locations and booking arrangements (if available). Most health authorities advertise COVID-19 testing locations on their websites. If you have a positive pre-departure test, but believe this is because of a historical COVID-19 infection, you need to see a medical practitioner who will examine you for current symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not currently have a COVID-19 infection, you will need them to provide a medical certificate with the date of your previous positive test (if applicable) and documentation stating that they consider you as no longer being infectious with COVID-19. It may take time to get an appointment, so if you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 3 months, book your medical examination in advance of receiving your test results. You should also check with your airlines about any regulations they may have in place regarding past COVID-19 infections. If you test positive, you may not be able to board your flight. You should postpone your travel and follow local public health advice. If you choose to travel at a later date when you have recovered, you will be required to get a medical certificate within 72 hours from the time of departure that confirms that you had a positive COVID-19 test but have now recovered. If your negative test result does not arrive in time for your flight, you can reschedule your flight for no more than 24 hours later, even if this takes your test beyond the 72 hours before the scheduled time of your first flight. If your flight is cancelled, the requirement would remain that you need to have had a test with a negative result no more than 72 hours before departure of your new flight. If your flight is delayed by 24 hours or less and you have a negative result, you can still travel, even if it takes your test beyond the 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first flight. You need to keep a record of your original scheduled flight for presenting to airline staff and Customs officers. Travellers are responsible for testing costs. You should work with airlines to rebook your flights, and contact Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) about your placement. MIQ is working hard to accommodate travellers that might be impacted by the new testing requirements. If you are impacted by the pre-departure testing requirements you should work with your airline to rebook your flights and contact MIQ for information about your MIQ placement. Contact MIQ about your placement (external link) If you need consular assistance, contact the Embassy, High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. What happens after you arrive in New Zealand, like presenting your test results to officials and getting a day 0/1 test when you enter a managed isolation facility. After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has confirmed the following types of tests are acceptable by the New Zealand Director-General of Health: PCR test (including RT-PCR) LAMP, or antigen tests (they may also be referred to as viral antigen tests). All tests must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. If you choose to take an at-home COVID-19 test, it must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. Testing labs must be able to issue you a dated report for you to present. It should have: traveller’s name traveller’s date of birth and/or passport number date and time the test was conducted name of testing lab test type test result. You should also check the requirements of other countries you are going to be transiting through. They may have requirements that are different to what New Zealand requires. Learn more about the Ministry of Health testing requirements (external link) The Government has created a new ‘very high risk’ country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. From 11:59pm on 28 April 2021, a ll travellers from very high risk countries must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test from an accredited laboratory. The test must be taken within 72 hours of departure. Restrictions on travel to New Zealand from very high risk countries (external link) If you are unable to take a test for medical reasons you are required to provide a medical certificate. A Fit to Fly Certificate will be accepted as proof of pre-departure testing documentation if it is consistent with both the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Order requirements and the subsequent Gazetted requirements regarding pre-departure testing. Acceptable Fit to Fly Certificates must contain the following six elements: Name of person tested Date of birth of person tested and/or the passport number of the person tested Name of the laboratory at which the COVID-19 test was processed Written confirmation from the laboratory of the result of a COVID-19 test Written confirmation of: the date on which the COVID-19 test was conducted, and the time at which the COVID-19 test was conducted — if necessary to establish that the COVID-19 test was undertaken within the 72-hour period before the person’s journey beginning due to the date of the test the date on which the COVID-19 test was conducted, and the time at which the COVID-19 test was conducted — if necessary to establish that the COVID-19 test was undertaken within the 72-hour period before the person’s journey beginning due to the date of the test Written confirmation of the type of test that was conducted If your test result record does not provide this information, you may be prevented from boarding the aircraft. Please ensure this information will be provided to you by your testing facility when you get tested. --- Section Separator --- You can get tested at a range of airports, or from private laboratories. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. Private providers for coronavirus testing (external link) Book a test at Heathrow Airport (external link) Learn more about CDC's recommendations for testing and international air travel (external link) You should contact the local health authority of the country that you are in for information about COVID-19 testing locations and booking arrangements (if available). Most health authorities advertise COVID-19 testing locations on their websites. --- Section Separator --- If you have a positive pre-departure test, but believe this is because of a historical COVID-19 infection, you need to see a medical practitioner who will examine you for current symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not currently have a COVID-19 infection, you will need them to provide a medical certificate with the date of your previous positive test (if applicable) and documentation stating that they consider you as no longer being infectious with COVID-19. It may take time to get an appointment, so if you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 3 months, book your medical examination in advance of receiving your test results. You should also check with your airlines about any regulations they may have in place regarding past COVID-19 infections. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive, you may not be able to board your flight. You should postpone your travel and follow local public health advice. If you choose to travel at a later date when you have recovered, you will be required to get a medical certificate within 72 hours from the time of departure that confirms that you had a positive COVID-19 test but have now recovered. --- Section Separator --- If your negative test result does not arrive in time for your flight, you can reschedule your flight for no more than 24 hours later, even if this takes your test beyond the 72 hours before the scheduled time of your first flight. --- Section Separator --- If your flight is cancelled, the requirement would remain that you need to have had a test with a negative result no more than 72 hours before departure of your new flight. If your flight is delayed by 24 hours or less and you have a negative result, you can still travel, even if it takes your test beyond the 72 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first flight. You need to keep a record of your original scheduled flight for presenting to airline staff and Customs officers. --- Section Separator --- Travellers are responsible for testing costs. --- Section Separator --- You should work with airlines to rebook your flights, and contact Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ) about your placement. MIQ is working hard to accommodate travellers that might be impacted by the new testing requirements. If you are impacted by the pre-departure testing requirements you should work with your airline to rebook your flights and contact MIQ for information about your MIQ placement. Contact MIQ about your placement (external link) If you need consular assistance, contact the Embassy, High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- What happens after you arrive in New Zealand, like presenting your test results to officials and getting a day 0/1 test when you enter a managed isolation facility. After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing --- Section Separator --- Restrictions on travel from very high risk countries Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Who needs a pre-departure test before arriving in NZ What to do before you travel to NZ — pre-departure testing After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing Who needs a pre-departure test before arriving in NZ What to do before you travel to NZ — pre-departure testing After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Who needs a pre-departure test before arriving in NZ --- Section Separator --- The Government has been monitoring overseas developments and is concerned about high rates of infection and new variants of the virus and their potential to spread more rapidly. This additional measure reduces the risk of infected travellers on international flights infecting other travellers. The Government now requires all travellers to New Zealand (except those from exempt locations) to have a COVID-19 test taken and a negative result returned within 72 hours of their first scheduled international flight. If you are planning to travel to New Zealand soon, it is a good idea to work out how you will be able to get your pre-departure test results within 72 hours of your departure. Contact your airline for more information about flights and any pre-departure requirements. Some people are exempt from the pre-departure testing requirements. Children under 2 years of age (24 months) do not need to take a pre-departure test. Children over the age of 2 (24 months) will need evidence of a negative pre-departure test. Locations included are Antarctica, Australia, the Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, New Caledonia, Niue, Palau, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu and Vanuatu. Locations included are Albania, Belize, Dominica, Kenya, Laos, Montenegro, Myanmar, Slovenia, St Kitts and Nevis, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan. These locations are exempt as they are unable to provide pre-departure testing for travellers to the standard required by New Zealand. Instead, travellers from these locations must obtain a certificate from a medical practitioner (including a person who is registered or licensed as an equivalent health professional overseas). This needs to be obtained no more than 72 hours before the journey begins confirming they do not have symptoms which indicate that they are likely to transmit COVID-19. Travellers need to produce this certificate when requested by the following: a health protection officer; a staff member or representative of the relevant air carrier; an immigration officer; or an enforcement officer; All arrivals from these locations are still required to complete 14 days in managed isolation. They are also subject to day 0/1, day 3 and day 12 testing during their stay If you cannot take a test due to medical reasons, you will need to see a medical practitioner within 72 hours of your departure. They will examine you for symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not have symptoms of COVID-19, they will need to provide you a medical certificate stating you cannot take a test due to medical reasons but do not have symptoms. This will be accepted as meeting the pre-departure testing requirements. If you have a positive pre-departure test, but believe this is because of a historical COVID-19 infection, you need to see a medical practitioner who will examine you for current symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not currently have a COVID-19 infection, you will need them to provide a medical certificate with the date of your previous positive test (if applicable) and documentation stating that they consider you as no longer being infectious with COVID-19. It may take time to get an appointment, so if you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 3 months, book your medical examination in advance of receiving your test results. You should also check with your airlines about any regulations they may have in place regarding past COVID-19 infections. If you have received a COVID-19 vaccination you will still need to take a test. If you return a positive result, you will need a medical certificate verifying that you are not infectious with COVID-19. You should factor this into your timings, and check with your airlines on any regulations they may have in place regarding vaccinations. What you need to do before you travel, including getting an approved test result, finding a testing location and what to do if your negative test result does not arrive in time. What to do before you travel — pre-departure testing --- Section Separator --- The Government has been monitoring overseas developments and is concerned about high rates of infection and new variants of the virus and their potential to spread more rapidly. This additional measure reduces the risk of infected travellers on international flights infecting other travellers. --- Section Separator --- The Government now requires all travellers to New Zealand (except those from exempt locations) to have a COVID-19 test taken and a negative result returned within 72 hours of their first scheduled international flight. If you are planning to travel to New Zealand soon, it is a good idea to work out how you will be able to get your pre-departure test results within 72 hours of your departure. Contact your airline for more information about flights and any pre-departure requirements. --- Section Separator --- Some people are exempt from the pre-departure testing requirements. Children under 2 years of age (24 months) do not need to take a pre-departure test. Children over the age of 2 (24 months) will need evidence of a negative pre-departure test. Locations included are Antarctica, Australia, the Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, New Caledonia, Niue, Palau, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu and Vanuatu. Locations included are Albania, Belize, Dominica, Kenya, Laos, Montenegro, Myanmar, Slovenia, St Kitts and Nevis, St Vincent and the Grenadines, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan. These locations are exempt as they are unable to provide pre-departure testing for travellers to the standard required by New Zealand. Instead, travellers from these locations must obtain a certificate from a medical practitioner (including a person who is registered or licensed as an equivalent health professional overseas). This needs to be obtained no more than 72 hours before the journey begins confirming they do not have symptoms which indicate that they are likely to transmit COVID-19. Travellers need to produce this certificate when requested by the following: a health protection officer; a staff member or representative of the relevant air carrier; an immigration officer; or an enforcement officer; All arrivals from these locations are still required to complete 14 days in managed isolation. They are also subject to day 0/1, day 3 and day 12 testing during their stay If you cannot take a test due to medical reasons, you will need to see a medical practitioner within 72 hours of your departure. They will examine you for symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not have symptoms of COVID-19, they will need to provide you a medical certificate stating you cannot take a test due to medical reasons but do not have symptoms. This will be accepted as meeting the pre-departure testing requirements. --- Section Separator --- If you have a positive pre-departure test, but believe this is because of a historical COVID-19 infection, you need to see a medical practitioner who will examine you for current symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not currently have a COVID-19 infection, you will need them to provide a medical certificate with the date of your previous positive test (if applicable) and documentation stating that they consider you as no longer being infectious with COVID-19. It may take time to get an appointment, so if you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 3 months, book your medical examination in advance of receiving your test results. You should also check with your airlines about any regulations they may have in place regarding past COVID-19 infections. --- Section Separator --- If you have received a COVID-19 vaccination you will still need to take a test. If you return a positive result, you will need a medical certificate verifying that you are not infectious with COVID-19. You should factor this into your timings, and check with your airlines on any regulations they may have in place regarding vaccinations. --- Section Separator --- What you need to do before you travel, including getting an approved test result, finding a testing location and what to do if your negative test result does not arrive in time. What to do before you travel — pre-departure testing --- Section Separator --- Restrictions on travel from very high risk countries Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Who needs a pre-departure test before arriving in NZ What to do before you travel to NZ — pre-departure testing After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing Who needs a pre-departure test before arriving in NZ What to do before you travel to NZ — pre-departure testing After you arrive in New Zealand — pre-departure testing Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Restrictions on travel from very high risk countries --- Section Separator --- The Government has created a new ‘very high risk’ country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Brazil India Pakistan Papua New Guinea These restrictions apply from 11:59pm on 28 April 2021. Travellers to New Zealand from very high risk countries are temporarily restricted to: New Zealand citizens partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, or parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. Partners of New Zealand citizens can be a spouse, civil union partner or de facto partner. If you're a non-New Zealand citizen, you must hold a valid visa to enter New Zealand. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ (external link) All travellers from very high risk countries must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test from a government-approved laboratory. The test must be taken within 72 hours of departure. The Ministry of Health publishes lists of laboratories in very high risk countries that are approved to conduct COVID-19 tests. Lists of approved laboratories (external link) All other travellers, including people holding residence class visas, must spend at least 14 days outside of very high risk countries before flying to New Zealand. You can transit through a very high risk country without having to spend 14 days outside the country before you travel to New Zealand. The Director-General of Health may grant exemptions for humanitarian reasons. You can find out more about the exemptions process at the Managed Isolation and Quarantine website. Apply for an exemption (external link) Countries have been designated very high risk where: there have been more than 50 cases of COVID-19 per 1,000 arrivals to New Zealand from those countries in 2021, and there are more than 15 travellers on average per month. Resurgence of COVID-19 is happening in a number of countries, and there are further waves of infections in many countries as new variants of the COVID-19 virus arise. This means New Zealand expects to see more returnees with COVID-19 from these areas. This increase in cases will place pressure on our managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) systems and workforce and increase the risk of a community outbreak. The New Zealand Government has responded by creating a very high risk country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The Government will review this decision regularly. In the 14 days before leaving there are things you can do to help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it to New Zealand with you: Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. --- Section Separator --- The Government has created a new ‘very high risk’ country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The following countries currently meet the threshold of being very high risk: Brazil India Pakistan Papua New Guinea --- Section Separator --- These restrictions apply from 11:59pm on 28 April 2021. Travellers to New Zealand from very high risk countries are temporarily restricted to: New Zealand citizens partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens, or parents of dependent children who are New Zealand citizens. Partners of New Zealand citizens can be a spouse, civil union partner or de facto partner. If you're a non-New Zealand citizen, you must hold a valid visa to enter New Zealand. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ (external link) All travellers from very high risk countries must have evidence of negative nasopharyngeal RT-PCR (PCR) test from a government-approved laboratory. The test must be taken within 72 hours of departure. The Ministry of Health publishes lists of laboratories in very high risk countries that are approved to conduct COVID-19 tests. Lists of approved laboratories (external link) All other travellers, including people holding residence class visas, must spend at least 14 days outside of very high risk countries before flying to New Zealand. You can transit through a very high risk country without having to spend 14 days outside the country before you travel to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Director-General of Health may grant exemptions for humanitarian reasons. You can find out more about the exemptions process at the Managed Isolation and Quarantine website. Apply for an exemption (external link) --- Section Separator --- Countries have been designated very high risk where: there have been more than 50 cases of COVID-19 per 1,000 arrivals to New Zealand from those countries in 2021, and there are more than 15 travellers on average per month. --- Section Separator --- Resurgence of COVID-19 is happening in a number of countries, and there are further waves of infections in many countries as new variants of the COVID-19 virus arise. This means New Zealand expects to see more returnees with COVID-19 from these areas. This increase in cases will place pressure on our managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) systems and workforce and increase the risk of a community outbreak. The New Zealand Government has responded by creating a very high risk country category that will significantly reduce the number of people with COVID-19 flying to New Zealand. The Government will review this decision regularly. --- Section Separator --- In the 14 days before leaving there are things you can do to help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it to New Zealand with you: Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. --- Section Separator --- Restrictions on travel from very high risk countries Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals --- Section Separator --- We are undertaking a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals is collecting information to help inform government policy. It does not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) The COVID-19 Group, which is part of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) are leading the survey. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd has been contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. You will be invited to do the survey if you’ve recently arrived in New Zealand and you’re 18 or over. You will be contacted by email. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you are a recent arrival to New Zealand. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd will be given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. They will hold your contact details for up to 4 months, before deleting them. You can choose if you want to complete the survey, and you can withdraw at any time without having to give a reason. The survey will take about 12 minutes to complete, and you can do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. You do not need to prepare anything before you complete the survey. If you’re having trouble getting the survey link to open, or having other technical difficulties, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz Your answers will be combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agree to take part in further research, your contact details will be sent to the research team at MBIE. The information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after they have sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) You can request a copy of your survey answers. You can also ask for them to be corrected, but you need to do this in the same calendar month that you complete the survey. Request a copy of your answers by emailing Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- We are undertaking a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals is collecting information to help inform government policy. It does not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Group, which is part of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, and the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) are leading the survey. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd has been contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. --- Section Separator --- You will be invited to do the survey if you’ve recently arrived in New Zealand and you’re 18 or over. You will be contacted by email. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you are a recent arrival to New Zealand. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd will be given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. They will hold your contact details for up to 4 months, before deleting them. You can choose if you want to complete the survey, and you can withdraw at any time without having to give a reason. --- Section Separator --- The survey will take about 12 minutes to complete, and you can do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. You do not need to prepare anything before you complete the survey. If you’re having trouble getting the survey link to open, or having other technical difficulties, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz --- Section Separator --- Your answers will be combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agree to take part in further research, your contact details will be sent to the research team at MBIE. The information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after they have sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) You can request a copy of your survey answers. You can also ask for them to be corrected, but you need to do this in the same calendar month that you complete the survey. Request a copy of your answers by emailing Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz --- Section Separator --- If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Restrictions on travel from very high risk countries Managed isolation and quarantine Pre-departure testing for arrivals into New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel and the border Travel within New Zealand Local travel --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear a face covering At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way: Follow hygiene practices. Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you do not know, where possible. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. At other times, consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Minimise the number of places you stop on the way to your destination. Do not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Tips for minimising risk on public transport: Avoid sitting or standing next to someone you do not know, where possible. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Face coverings on public transport information You can use a private vehicle for transport. Please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine. Keep a 2 metre distance from other pedestrians. Take extra care if you need to step out into the street as there will be more traffic at Alert Level 2. If you’re healthy and do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Guidelines when travelling by taxi or ride-share: Stay home if you're sick. Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. Apart from the driver, only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing servic es need to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3, travel is still restricted and is only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people, like in shops. Do not travel outside of your region unless your local area crosses a regional boundary. Personal travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Business travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. You can use public transport to travel within your local area, but only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school, but only if you cannot stay at home low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Face coverings on public transport information We recommend you only travel in your car with people from your bubble. If you have to drive for essential reasons, please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your bubble. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services for only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. Your driver must wear one. To help limit the spread of any virus, we recommend those who are unwell stay at home. If you're unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . All driver licences, warrants of fitness (WoFs), certificates of fitness (CoFs) and some vehicle certifications that expired on or after 1 January 2020 were extended until 10 October 2020. This recognised that during Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3, through no fault of their own, many New Zealanders were unable to keep these documents up to date. This extension allowed vehicle users extra time to allow them to get up to date. As well as general hygiene guidance, there are some specific requirements while travelling in a taxi or ride-share. Please also follow any requests from the driver. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit a vehicle. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. Physical distancing between the driver and passengers is important, even in smaller vehicles. If you're a passenger, sit in the rear passenger seats only — avoid sitting in the front passenger seat next to the driver. Sit as far as possible from the driver. If you’re the sole passenger, sit in the rear left-hand side passenger seat, diagonally opposite the driver. The maximum number of passengers is the number of passenger seats in the back of the vehicle. Most cars normally have 3 rear passenger seats. You’re encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing services legally must wear a face covering. If you are a passenger in a taxi of ride-share, we strongly encourage you to wear a face covering. Please follow any requests for providing contact tracing information if not already provided, for example, electronically through an app or booking system. More details about transport restrictions (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, face coverings legally must be worn: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear face coverings --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Who needs to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way: Follow hygiene practices. Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you do not know, where possible. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. At other times, consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Minimise the number of places you stop on the way to your destination. Do not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Tips for minimising risk on public transport: Avoid sitting or standing next to someone you do not know, where possible. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Face coverings on public transport information You can use a private vehicle for transport. Please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine. Keep a 2 metre distance from other pedestrians. Take extra care if you need to step out into the street as there will be more traffic at Alert Level 2. If you’re healthy and do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Guidelines when travelling by taxi or ride-share: Stay home if you're sick. Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. Apart from the driver, only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing servic es need to wear a face covering. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is still restricted and is only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people, like in shops. Do not travel outside of your region unless your local area crosses a regional boundary. Personal travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Business travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. You can use public transport to travel within your local area, but only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school, but only if you cannot stay at home low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. You legally must wear a face covering: on public transport on domestic flights by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people and services. Face coverings on public transport information We recommend you only travel in your car with people from your bubble. If you have to drive for essential reasons, please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your bubble. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services for only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. Your driver must wear one. --- Section Separator --- To help limit the spread of any virus, we recommend those who are unwell stay at home. If you're unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- All driver licences, warrants of fitness (WoFs), certificates of fitness (CoFs) and some vehicle certifications that expired on or after 1 January 2020 were extended until 10 October 2020. This recognised that during Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3, through no fault of their own, many New Zealanders were unable to keep these documents up to date. This extension allowed vehicle users extra time to allow them to get up to date. --- Section Separator --- As well as general hygiene guidance, there are some specific requirements while travelling in a taxi or ride-share. Please also follow any requests from the driver. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit a vehicle. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. Physical distancing between the driver and passengers is important, even in smaller vehicles. If you're a passenger, sit in the rear passenger seats only — avoid sitting in the front passenger seat next to the driver. Sit as far as possible from the driver. If you’re the sole passenger, sit in the rear left-hand side passenger seat, diagonally opposite the driver. The maximum number of passengers is the number of passenger seats in the back of the vehicle. Most cars normally have 3 rear passenger seats. You’re encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing services legally must wear a face covering. If you are a passenger in a taxi of ride-share, we strongly encourage you to wear a face covering. Please follow any requests for providing contact tracing information if not already provided, for example, electronically through an app or booking system. More details about transport restrictions (external link) --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Local travel Regional travel Personal travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Business travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Travelling home during an Alert Level change
Home Travel and the border Travel within New Zealand Regional travel --- Section Separator --- If you’re living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you've been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you've visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as most ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering If you're sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your GP or Nurse Practitioner to find out if you should get a test. If you're advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses If you’re living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you’re sick, please don’t travel at all — stay home and get tested. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft. There are exceptions. Face coverings Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you don’t know, where possible. Do not travel: if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the aircraft. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small aircraft or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you’re allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. Travel into, out of or through an Alert Level 3 area is restricted. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we can keep our loved ones and communities safe. Anyone wanting to travel between Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 regions needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. Personal travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Business travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Alert Level boundaries interactive map If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you may need to apply for an exemption. Before applying you need to consider whether: your need to travel across an Alert Level boundary is for an urgent, non-delayable reason; or anyone else (who does not need to cross the Alert Level boundary) can attend the event or perform the activity you need to get to. The Ministry of Health and MBIE have developed online registration systems to support requests for business, service and personal movement across an Alert Level boundary. For business travel permissions – apply through www.business.govt.nz (external link) Personal movement exemptions – apply through the Ministry of Health (external link) At Alert Level 3 you can only travel locally, and for allowed reasons. For example, going to work or school if you must, or for shopping or to get exercise. Advice for travelling locally --- Section Separator --- If you’re living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you've been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you've visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as most ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering If you're sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your GP or Nurse Practitioner to find out if you should get a test. If you're advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms wear face coverings on public transport and domestic flights keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- If you’re living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you’re sick, please don’t travel at all — stay home and get tested. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft. There are exceptions. Face coverings Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you don’t know, where possible. Do not travel: if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the aircraft. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small aircraft or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you’re allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. --- Section Separator --- Travel into, out of or through an Alert Level 3 area is restricted. These Alert Level boundaries are an important way to manage the risk of the virus spreading, so we can keep our loved ones and communities safe. Anyone wanting to travel between Alert Level 3 and Alert Level 2 regions needs to check whether they are eligible to travel. Personal travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Business travel in to and out of an Alert Level 3 area Alert Level boundaries interactive map If your reason for travelling is not permitted, you may need to apply for an exemption. Before applying you need to consider whether: your need to travel across an Alert Level boundary is for an urgent, non-delayable reason; or anyone else (who does not need to cross the Alert Level boundary) can attend the event or perform the activity you need to get to. The Ministry of Health and MBIE have developed online registration systems to support requests for business, service and personal movement across an Alert Level boundary. For business travel permissions – apply through www.business.govt.nz (external link) Personal movement exemptions – apply through the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3 you can only travel locally, and for allowed reasons. For example, going to work or school if you must, or for shopping or to get exercise. Advice for travelling locally --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Local travel Regional travel Personal travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Business travel permissions at Alert Level 3 Travelling home during an Alert Level change
Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. Data and statistics about COVID-19 vaccinations, cases and testing in New Zealand. You can also find data about clusters, locations of interest and managed isolation and quarantine. Find phone numbers for when you want help, advice or information. Get posters like the QR code poster, hygiene posters, physical distancing posters, and posters for the social sector and healthcare. Resources to help your business operate safely — including posters, signs and contact tracing registers. Advice to help you avoid scams exploiting COVID-19, and what to do if you're concerned about price rises. Resources you can use to help make summer unstoppable. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. Information and advice in other formats for disabled people. Information and advice translated into different languages. --- Section Separator --- Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. Data and statistics about COVID-19 vaccinations, cases and testing in New Zealand. You can also find data about clusters, locations of interest and managed isolation and quarantine. Find phone numbers for when you want help, advice or information. Get posters like the QR code poster, hygiene posters, physical distancing posters, and posters for the social sector and healthcare. Resources to help your business operate safely — including posters, signs and contact tracing registers. Advice to help you avoid scams exploiting COVID-19, and what to do if you're concerned about price rises. Resources you can use to help make summer unstoppable. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. Information and advice in other formats for disabled people. Information and advice translated into different languages.
Home Updates and resources Alternate formats Easy Read --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.9 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 1007 KB] Information about coronavirus and COVID-19 [DOCX, 14 MB] Information about coronavirus and COVID-19 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information [PDF, 850 KB] Before getting your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Before getting your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.8 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 11 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.2 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 8.1 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.5 MB] Guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 3.7 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [DOCX, 8.4 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [PDF, 1.9 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 5.6 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.2 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [PDF, 1.4 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.4 MB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [PDF, 1.2 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble [DOCX, 2.5 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble [PDF, 1.3 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] It is safe to go to school [DOCX, 2.6 MB] It is safe to go to school [PDF, 802 KB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 9.7 MB] Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.9 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 10 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 14 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 2.4 MB] Visiting family and friends [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Visiting family and friends [PDF, 1 MB] Leaving your home and going out [DOCX, 6.7 MB] Leaving your home and going out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [DOCX, 3 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [PDF, 685 KB] Going to your appointments [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Going to your appointments [PDF, 1.2 MB] Going to work [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Going to work [PDF, 923 KB] Going back to school or university [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Going back to school or university [PDF, 996 KB] Travelling in NZ [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Travelling in NZ [PDF, 1.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 9.7 MB] Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.9 MB] Staying in your bubble [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Staying in your bubble [PDF, 1.6 MB] Exercise [DOCX, 2.9 MB] Exercise [PDF, 1.3 MB] Working at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Working at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 951 KB] Golden rules for businesses [DOCX, 8.7 MB] Golden rules for businesses [PDF, 1.4 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [DOCX, 3.8 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [PDF, 1.1 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [DOCX, 3.9 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Using healthcare services [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Using healthcare services [PDF, 1.6 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [DOCX, 7.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.9 MB] Golden rules to help keep us safe from COVID-19 [PDF, 1007 KB] Information about coronavirus and COVID-19 [DOCX, 14 MB] Information about coronavirus and COVID-19 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information [PDF, 850 KB] --- Section Separator --- Before getting your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Before getting your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.8 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 11 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.2 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 8.1 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.5 MB] Guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 3.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- How COVID-19 testing works [DOCX, 8.4 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [PDF, 1.9 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 5.6 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.2 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [PDF, 1.4 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.4 MB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Changes to COVID-19 testing for people travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after yourself when you are sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble [DOCX, 2.5 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble [PDF, 1.3 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] --- Section Separator --- It is safe to go to school [DOCX, 2.6 MB] It is safe to go to school [PDF, 802 KB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 9.7 MB] Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 2 and Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.9 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 10 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 14 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 2.4 MB] Visiting family and friends [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Visiting family and friends [PDF, 1 MB] Leaving your home and going out [DOCX, 6.7 MB] Leaving your home and going out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [DOCX, 3 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [PDF, 685 KB] Going to your appointments [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Going to your appointments [PDF, 1.2 MB] Going to work [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Going to work [PDF, 923 KB] Going back to school or university [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Going back to school or university [PDF, 996 KB] Travelling in NZ [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Travelling in NZ [PDF, 1.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 9.7 MB] Help us stop the spread — Living at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 1.9 MB] Staying in your bubble [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Staying in your bubble [PDF, 1.6 MB] Exercise [DOCX, 2.9 MB] Exercise [PDF, 1.3 MB] Working at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Working at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 951 KB] Golden rules for businesses [DOCX, 8.7 MB] Golden rules for businesses [PDF, 1.4 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [DOCX, 3.8 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [PDF, 1.1 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [DOCX, 3.9 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Using healthcare services [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Using healthcare services [PDF, 1.6 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [DOCX, 7.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio
Home Updates and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Help us stop the spread — Please do your bit — NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Face coverings and masks (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Getting the right information (external link) COVID-19 vaccines (external link) Making sure New Zealand's COVID-19 vaccines are safe (external link) COVID-19 vaccination programme (external link) Impact of the vaccine on our borders (external link) Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Getting tested (external link) Self isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It's OK to ask for help (external link) It's OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) Simple steps you can take (external link) Animal welfare (external link) Information for international visitors (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has a 4-level COVID-19 Alert System. Each Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) NZSL videos about the COVID-19 Alert Level system (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19: The virus and its symptoms (external link) Help us stop the spread — Please do your bit — NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Face coverings and masks (external link) Personal protective equipment (PPE) (external link) Getting the right information (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines (external link) Making sure New Zealand's COVID-19 vaccines are safe (external link) COVID-19 vaccination programme (external link) Impact of the vaccine on our borders (external link) --- Section Separator --- Who should get assessed for COVID-19? (external link) Getting tested (external link) Self isolation and symptoms but no risk factors (external link) Having a support person while getting tested (external link) What are the steps from getting tested to receiving your test results? (external link) What happens if my test comes back positive? (external link) Testing data in New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 1 (external link) School holidays (external link) Back to school (external link) The 4 Golden Rules (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 2: Reduce (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 2 (external link) Education at Alert Level 2 (external link) Travel and movement at Alert level 2 (external link) Going out, gatherings, public venues, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) Healthcare at Alert Level 2 (external link) Choice in community living and supported living at Alert Level 2 (external link) Community residential services provided under the High and Complex Framework at Alert Level 2 (external link) Day services will be open in a limited way at Alert Level 2 (external link) Home and community support services at Alert Level 2 (external link) Other services that are available and some NASC appointments will resume at Alert Level 2 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3: Restrict (external link) Golden rules for business at Alert Level 3 (external link) Keeping your distance — Alert Level 3 FAQs (external link) Food and shopping (external link) Work (external link) Do I need a mask and gloves when I go to work? (external link) Can I continue to volunteer outside the home? (external link) Education (external link) Is it safe for my child to go to school? (external link) Tertiary education (external link) Gatherings (external link) Can I go to a funeral? (external link) Can I go to someone's house for dinner? (external link) Can I create a bubble with another person? (external link) Extending your bubble (external link) What can I do outside the house? (external link) Where can I travel? (external link) Can I go outside to exercise? (external link) Can I access community health services like my dentist or optometrist? (external link) Can I get a flu shot? (external link) What other services are available to me? (external link) Can I use cash or cheques to pay for things? (external link) Can I visit the post office to pay my bills? (external link) Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Top ways to look after your mental wellbeing (external link) It's OK to ask for help (external link) It's OK to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in with others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) At-risk people (external link) What do I do if I feel unsafe in my bubble? (external link) --- Section Separator --- Simple steps you can take (external link) Animal welfare (external link) Information for international visitors (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio
Home Updates and resources Contact a helpline --- Section Separator --- Call 111 immediately in an emergency. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Mental wellbeing helplines Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention helplines A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what the current Alert Level means for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you have questions or feedback about the NZ COVID Tracer app: call 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz If you have questions about managed isolation and quarantine, including charges and exemptions: call 0800 ISOMIQ ( 0800 476 647 ) from within New Zealand call +64 4 888 1670 from outside New Zealand or if you’re in New Zealand with an international SIM email enquiries@miq.govt.nz Many government agencies have language support available, if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Call 111 immediately in an emergency. --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Mental wellbeing helplines Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention helplines --- Section Separator --- A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what the current Alert Level means for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. --- Section Separator --- If you have questions or feedback about the NZ COVID Tracer app: call 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz --- Section Separator --- If you have questions about managed isolation and quarantine, including charges and exemptions: call 0800 ISOMIQ ( 0800 476 647 ) from within New Zealand call +64 4 888 1670 from outside New Zealand or if you’re in New Zealand with an international SIM email enquiries@miq.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Many government agencies have language support available, if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages --- Section Separator --- If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Misinformation and scams Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Alternate formats Translations COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Updates and resources Data and statistics --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. You can get data on: the number of confirmed and probable cases of COVID-19 the location and source of active cases cases by district health board (DHB). Current COVID-19 cases (external link) You can get data on confirmed and probable cases by: ethnicity age and sex hospitalisation and intensive care COVID-19 case demographics (external link) Data on how the virus has spread in New Zealand, for example imported cases, locally acquired but linked to another case, or locally acquired with no known source. You can also get data on clusters of cases. Source of COVID-19 cases (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes data on: total tests completed tests by location, for example in managed isolation or by district health board tests by ethnicity testing rates, including testing by location, ethnicity, and age and sex. COVID-19 testing data (external link) The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. You can get: total numbers of first and second doses of the vaccine number of vaccinations administered against the plan vaccinations by day vaccinations by district health board (DHB), and vaccinations by age, sex and ethnicity COVID-19 vaccine data (external link) Data and statistics about managed isolation and quarantine is published by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE). The data includes: daily data updates projected occupancy over the next 14 days number of people who have returned to New Zealand daily incident reports testing data and current COVID-19 cases in managed isolation and quarantine. Managed isolation and quarantine data (external link) The Ministry of Health collects i nformation on how much people are using the NZ COVID Tracer app. You can get daily data on: app registrations QR codes generated scans manual diary entries devices with Bluetooth tracing turned on. NZ COVID Tracer app data (external link) Find more sources of data related to COVID-19, if the data collected by the Ministry of Health is not what you need. Examples include the ESR dashboard, Stats NZ’s COVID-19 data portal and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you’re a researcher. COVID-19 data resources (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. You can get data on: the number of confirmed and probable cases of COVID-19 the location and source of active cases cases by district health board (DHB). Current COVID-19 cases (external link) You can get data on confirmed and probable cases by: ethnicity age and sex hospitalisation and intensive care COVID-19 case demographics (external link) Data on how the virus has spread in New Zealand, for example imported cases, locally acquired but linked to another case, or locally acquired with no known source. You can also get data on clusters of cases. Source of COVID-19 cases (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes data on: total tests completed tests by location, for example in managed isolation or by district health board tests by ethnicity testing rates, including testing by location, ethnicity, and age and sex. COVID-19 testing data (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. You can get: total numbers of first and second doses of the vaccine number of vaccinations administered against the plan vaccinations by day vaccinations by district health board (DHB), and vaccinations by age, sex and ethnicity COVID-19 vaccine data (external link) --- Section Separator --- Data and statistics about managed isolation and quarantine is published by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE). The data includes: daily data updates projected occupancy over the next 14 days number of people who have returned to New Zealand daily incident reports testing data and current COVID-19 cases in managed isolation and quarantine. Managed isolation and quarantine data (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health collects i nformation on how much people are using the NZ COVID Tracer app. You can get daily data on: app registrations QR codes generated scans manual diary entries devices with Bluetooth tracing turned on. NZ COVID Tracer app data (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find more sources of data related to COVID-19, if the data collected by the Ministry of Health is not what you need. Examples include the ESR dashboard, Stats NZ’s COVID-19 data portal and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you’re a researcher. COVID-19 data resources (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Misinformation and scams Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Alternate formats Translations COVID-19 vaccine resources
Displaying 1-10 of 315 updates 03 May 2021 03 May 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 May 2021 The Ministry of Health is advising airlines that flights between Perth and New Zealand can resume as early as tomorrow following last night’s temporary pause. 01 May 2021 Ministry of Health officials have temporarily paused direct flights from Western Australia to New Zealand following new positive COVID-19 cases in Perth. 30 Apr 2021 Queensland health authorities have advised a change in classification for some passengers who flew from Brisbane to NZ on Thursday 29 April. 30 Apr 2021 The Ministry of Health is continuing to advise passengers who flew from Brisbane to New Zealand last night to monitor their health. 30 Apr 2021 From 11.59pm tonight all work in Managed Isolation and Quarantine facilities and by Government agencies at the border will be undertaken by vaccinated workers. 30 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 29 Apr 2021 Health authorities have asked new arrivals from Brisbane to monitor their health for the next 14 days following a green zone breach at a Brisbane Airport. 29 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
The Government has introduced the new requirement under the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021. Joint Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, Brigadier Jim Bliss, says this is a big milestone in New Zealand’s vaccination programme. “This is the largest immunisation programme ever undertaken in this country and MIQ and border workers were first in line. They are among the people most at risk of exposure and I’m really proud so many of them have stepped up and led the way for the country. “The COVID-19 vaccination programme roll-out started on 20 February when MIQ workers at the Jet Park facility in Auckland were the first people to be offered the vaccination. We’ve come a really long way in such a short time”, he says. “As of today 95% of MIQ workers have been vaccinated. We always expected there would be a small percentage who wouldn’t. “On any given day we have around 4,500 people working in our 32 MIQ facilities from over 300 different employers. Anyone not vaccinated, in order to meet the border order requirement, will be redeployed by their employer. These are individual employment discussions for employers to have with their employees. We have supported them with assistance from the Ministry for Social Development to explore other employment options. “To keep workers protected and our communities safe from transmission, all public and private MIQ workers, contractors and visitors (permanent and occasional) will, from 1 May, have to provide proof of vaccination each time they enter a facility. “Border and MIQ staff have now supported more than 134,000 people to safely cross the border to life in New Zealand. Having a vaccinated MIQ workforce will provide a critical additional line of defence to keep them, their whānau and our communities safe and well, and help prevent COVID-19 from spreading into our communities. It’s an extra layer to help protect all New Zealanders against COVID-19.” Christine Stevenson, Chair of the Border Executive Board and Chief Executive of the New Zealand Customs Service, says the new requirements will also apply to workers employed by government agencies at the border who interact with international arriving air passengers (not including quarantine free travel) and crew or ship’s crew, or who spend more than 15 minutes in an enclosed space on board ships. “Government border agencies will have a duty to ensure that only people who have been vaccinated are permitted to carry out work, or other activities, at our international airports and ports”, she says. “Our border workers across government and MIQ have done a remarkable selfless job in keeping our country safe from COVID-19. “Being fully vaccinated gives an even greater level of protection to these workers, their families and the community.” Initially, current workers will be considered vaccinated if they have had one dose of the vaccine. All current workers must have had two doses of the vaccine by 5 June 2021. New workers covered by the Order will need to have their first dose before starting work, and then have 35 days from starting work to receive their second dose. Learn more about vaccination requirements for workers in high-risk border settings
Following interviews with the person who has today returned a positive test for COVID-19, the Ministry of Health believes there is a clear link to the border as the source of the infection. The person who has tested positive for COVID-19 works as a cleaner at Auckland International Airport, cleaning planes that have flown internationally from countries where COVID-19 is widespread. The person has been tested weekly for COVID-19 as part of routine surveillance testing. They were tested yesterday at their workplace as part of this, and that test came back as positive today. Their previous tests were all negative. The person is currently isolating at home while they are being interviewed by health officials and following this they will be transferred to the Auckland quarantine facility. Five household contacts have been tested and have returned negative results. Close contacts from the person’s workplace are being identified, isolated, and tested. So far, we have identified that the person has 16 close contacts. This number will likely change as further scoping of this person’s movements identifies other people they have been in close contact with. Their work at Auckland Airport is their sole employment, and their role is non-public facing. Additional pop up testing has been set up at Auckland Airport this afternoon – this is in addition to the testing site that is already running at the airport. Locations of interest where people may have been at the same time as the case will be shared as they are available. This case is a reminder that everyone in New Zealand should be using the NZ COVID Tracer app – if you have scanned in at a location with someone who has COVID-19 you will be sent a notification through the app which is the quickest and easiest way to protect your whanau. So far, locations of interest identified are: Westfield St Luke’s Food Court, Saturday 17 April 2021 12:15pm to 2:30pm Bunnings New Lynn, Saturday 17 April 2021 2:30pm to 3:50pm Movenpick Dominion Road, Saturday 17 April 2021 5:15pm to 7:20pm Locations of interest at the Ministry of Health (external link) People who were at these places are considered casual contacts, who should monitor their health and be aware of any symptoms of COVID-19. If anyone develops symptoms they should stay at home, contact Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and get a test. The Ministry’s assessment, based on what we know so far, is that the risk to the public appears low. The person has been fully vaccinated – they received two doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine early in the vaccination campaign – in February and March. We know the Pfizer vaccine is highly effective, but at 95% effectiveness a small number may not be protected. Breakthrough infections happen with all vaccines. This shows us how important it is that as many New Zealanders as possible take up the offer to receive the vaccine when they are offered it and are protected. The more people that are vaccinated, the more protected we will all be. The PCR test from this case has been sent for whole genome sequencing – the Ministry expects to be able to provide an update on this result tomorrow. The results of the whole genome sequencing will help provide information on how the person became infected with COVID-19. A final note of thanks to this person – they, like many others at our border, have worked in an environment during this pandemic that has exposed them to the virus that we have collectively worked so hard to keep out. This person has done the right things – they have been regularly tested at their workplace, and we know they have been using the NZ COVID Tracer app, with Bluetooth turned on. People working at our border deserve our thanks and appreciation, and our thoughts are with this person as they recover from their infection. Locations of interest at the Ministry of Health (external link)
The Government closed the border to everyone but New Zealand citizens and residents, in order to keep COVID-19 out, keep our economy open and keep New Zealand safe. The Government has introduced additional exceptions throughout the past year as circumstances permitted, and is announcing today it is granting further exemptions that will allow hundreds more families to reunite. The Government is introducing border exceptions allowing offshore visa applications for the families of health care workers in New Zealand, as well as a small number of other highly skilled workers in other sectors who are currently in New Zealand. A new border exception is also being created for the partners and dependent children of temporary visa holders in New Zealand, who hold visas, but had not yet arrived here when the border closed. To be eligible for the new border exceptions, the family member currently in New Zealand must have more than 12 months remaining on their visa. Partners and dependent children of temporary visa holders at Immigration NZ (external link)
The Ministry of Health has organised a month-long trial of the ëlarm app, which connects to wearable devices such as Fitbit, Apple Watch and other smart watches or fitness trackers. The app uses artificial intelligence technology to inform users of early physiological changes that might indicate they are becoming unwell, several days before they experience symptoms. Up to 500 border workers can volunteer to take part in the trial, which runs until early May. After installing the app on a smart device, they will receive regular email reminders, and alerts throughout the day and can securely view their own health information on the app or by going online to view a dashboard. The app establishes a personalised health baseline for each user, based on their wearable data history. All data used by the app is entirely private to the individual participants, which is a fundamental part of ëlarm’s privacy-by-design principles. Contact tracing is at the heart of our COVID-19 response and it’s essential we find and treat people who might have been exposed to this difficult virus before it has a chance to take hold in our communities. Datamine, the New Zealand company that developed the ëlarm app, will provide wearable devices for border workers taking part who do not have a Fitbit or smartwatch. Early research of similar technology supports the use of wearable devices to detect COVID-19 and other transmissible diseases, including studies undertaken by Stanford University, Scripps Institute and UCSF. Find out more about the ëlarm app (external link)
If symptoms develop, call Healthline on 0800 611 116 and get a test, following a green zone breach at Brisbane Airport. The risk from this event continues to be assessed as low. Health officials in Queensland have identified Brisbane’s international terminal as a location of interest following yesterday’s green zone breach at the airport and classified anyone in the terminal between 9.45AM local time and midday yesterday (Thursday) as casual contacts and asked people to monitor their symptoms. The reported breach was in the Hudson Café and the nearby male toilets on level 3 in the terminal where two individuals from a red zone country were in the café and also used the toilets, accessible to green zone passengers. Queensland Health has informed the Ministry that both passengers were tested in Brisbane with one returning a negative result and the other returning a weak positive. A subsequent PCR test confirmed the weak positive. Queensland Health has informed the Ministry that the two red zone passengers were wearing masks, maintaining social distancing with very little interaction with others and are not symptomatic. CCTV footage also shows the café table was cleared and cleaned when they left. The three flights affected are Air New Zealand NZ 202 from Brisbane to Christchurch which arrived around 4.30 pm yesterday; Air New Zealand NZ 146 from Brisbane to Auckland which arrived at 5.30 pm yesterday and Qantas QF 135 from Brisbane to Christchurch yesterday. A reminder for people who may need a COVID-19 test – Auckland Regional Public Health Service (ARPHS) for all testing locations in Auckland. For all testing locations nationwide visit the Healthpoint website. Find a testing location in Auckland (external link) Find a testing location in other parts of New Zealand (external link)
Following this advice, the Ministry of Health asks all affected travellers from Brisbane to New Zealand on Thursday afternoon and evening (NZ time) to follow its updated health advice. The reported breach is linked to two individuals from a red zone country who were in the café and also used the toilets, both accessible to green zone passengers. The two individuals were tested in Brisbane with one returning a negative result and the other returning a weak positive, confirmed by a second PCR test. It remains reassuring that the two red zone individuals wore masks, maintained social distancing, had very little interaction with others and have not been symptomatic. While the health risk from the green zone breach event remains low, the Queensland authorities have advised New Zealand counterparts that those travellers who were in two locations of interest at specified times within the international terminal are Casual Plus contacts . The two locations of interest are: Hudson’s coffee stand and adjacent seating between 9.23am and 11.20am Thursday 29 April Queensland time, and the male toilet adjacent to Gate 79 between 11.23am and 11.15pm when the toilet was cleaned. The three flights affected are: Air New Zealand NZ 202 from Brisbane to Christchurch which arrived around 4.30 pm on Thursday 29 April Air New Zealand NZ 146 from Brisbane to Auckland which arrived at 5.30 pm on Thursday 29 April Qantas QF 135 from Brisbane to Christchurch yesterday. As a precaution, anyone who was at these locations at these times should now immediately return home or to their accommodation, isolate until they get a negative result from a day five test on Tuesday 4 May. Travellers who were in either of these two locations at this time should contact Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and register as a casual plus contact. The Ministry of Health’s contact tracing team will be contacting passengers on the three flights tomorrow. The Ministry remains in contact with Queensland Health authorities and will provide updates as more information becomes available.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- There are no new cases in the community to report today. There are two new positive cases of COVID-19 to report in managed isolation since our last media statement yesterday. Update on today's cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay Minister Hipkins will provide an update on the Government’s vaccine rollout, and Dr Caroline McElnay will give an update on yesterday’s airport worker case. Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- There are no new cases in the community to report today. The border worker announced by the Ministry of Health yesterday has been officially included in today’s numbers. There is one new case of COVID-19 to report in managed isolation since yesterday. Update on today's cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Associate Minister of Health Dr Ayesha Verrall Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community today. There are two new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities. Update on today's cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The media conference is at 12pm. Speakers: Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 vaccine background media panel starts at 3:15pm. Participants: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Chief Executive Officer for Counties Manukau Health DHB Fepulea'i Margie Apa Lead CE for the Northern Region DHBs’ COVID-19 response and Deputy Director-General, Data and Digital, Ministry of Health Shayne Hunter Dr Bloomfield will lead the media panel for media organisations to update and provide more detail on the COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan. This will include information about the delivery plan, the online booking tool, and updated public sentiment research. Watch the media panel.
New Zealand health officials today participated in a meeting with their Australian counterparts to further assess the public health risk of the recently identified COVID-19 community cases in Perth. It has been determined that the risk to public health in New Zealand is low. Following further assessment, the Ministry of Health is advising airlines that flights between Perth and New Zealand can resume as early as tomorrow. This follows last night’s temporary pause in direct Perth-New Zealand bound flights while the Ministry was awaiting a further assessment from Western Australian officials. “While the public health risk is deemed low, we must all remain vigilant as we enjoy the opportunities Quarantine-Free Travel has given us. There are some additional public health measures we require of people who are or have recently been in Western Australia,” said Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield. Anyone who has been in Perth since 27 April is advised to check the Western Australian Government website for locations of interest. If you were at a location of interest at a specified time and you are still in Perth and are planning to travel to New Zealand, you are asked to follow the Western Australia health advice regarding isolation and testing on the above website. In addition, anyone who has been at a location of interest cannot travel to New Zealand from Australia within 14 days of exposure. This includes any additional locations of interest that are determined in the coming days and yet to be announced. Learn more about the locations of interest (external link) If you have recently arrived in New Zealand from Australia and were in a location of interest at the specified time, please self-isolate immediately and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for information on when you should be tested. Around 750 passengers who travelled either directly or indirectly between Western Australia and New Zealand between 27 April and 1 May are being contacted today by the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing team and being given the above advice. There may be additional passengers identified as contact tracers work with other government agencies to confirm travel histories and contact details. “The travel bubble allows us to reconnect with our loved ones across the Tasman, but we must still follow basic public health measures. It’s important we continue to keep a record of where we have been by scanning QR codes and turning on Bluetooth using the COVID Tracer app, or keep manual diaries. Please continue to maintain personal hygiene measures and if you’re unwell please stay home and call Healthline to work out whether you need to get a test,” said Dr Bloomfield. “Both countries have planned for this type of scenario and are following agreed Trans-Tasman bubble protocols. We always knew disruption to travel plans was possible, and it is important that travellers follow the instructions in order to limit any risk of further spread. We’d like to thank people for their patience and cooperation.”
The border-related case detected on 20 April is a reminder of how important it is to keep up our public health behaviours. New visitors to New Zealand may feel unsure or anxious about how New Zealand responds to COVID-19 cases. Here is a guide to what you can do to keep yourself, your whānau and the community safe. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands often with soap, and dry them well. Use hand sanitiser when you’re out and about. Cough and sneeze into your elbow to keep droplets off your hands. --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home or in your accommodation. Call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. If you’re offered a test, please take it. Tests are free of charge for everyone. By getting a test, you’re helping keep the community safe. Symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. COVID-19 symptoms, including less-common symptoms --- Section Separator --- Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you’ve visited. Scan QR codes at businesses and services to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. Make sure you’ve turned on Bluetooth tracing — this allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer If you do not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with your own pen and paper or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. --- Section Separator --- Make sure you wear your face covering on public transport and on domestic flights throughout New Zealand. We also encourage you to wear your face covering when it’s hard to maintain physical distance, like in shops or other crowded places. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. --- Section Separator --- Covid19.govt.nz (this website), our social media channels and the Ministry of Health are New Zealand’s reliable sources of information and advice about our response to COVID-19. Make sure you know how to find these websites and social media channels so you can check them for updates. Unite against COVID-19 social media channels Ministry of Health website (external link)
“New Zealand is in a strong position and Kiwis enjoy freedoms most other countries do not have, thanks to the efforts of the team of five million. But as the Government has always said, we will continue to look for ways to improve and refine our approach, based on evidence and risk", Minister for COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins said. In the latest stage of evolution at the border, the Government has created a new ‘very high risk country’ category that will significantly reduce the number of infected people flying to New Zealand. This is in response to rapidly increasing rates of infection in parts of the globe and based on what is happening in the country, the prevalence of COVID-19 variants of concern, the public health measures the country has in place and the risk to our border. The new category comes into force from 11:59pm on 28 April. Countries have initially been designated very high risk where there have been more than 50 cases of COVID-19 per 1000 arrivals to New Zealand from those countries in 2021, and where there are more than 15 travellers on average per month. India, Brazil, Papua New Guinea and Pakistan are the countries that currently meet that threshold, and as a result, travellers from those countries will be temporarily restricted to New Zealand citizens, their partners and children, and parents of children who are New Zealand citizens. From India alone, this is expected to reduce the number of potential positive cases coming to New Zealand by an estimated 75%. All travellers from very high risk countries will require evidence of a negative PCR test from an accredited laboratory within 72 hours prior to travel. I want to stress this was not an easy decision. It was based entirely on current risk assessment and will be reviewed regularly. There will be an exceptions process on humanitarian grounds. All other travellers, including residents, will be required to have been outside of the very high risk country for at least 14 days before flying to New Zealand. Officials will continue to develop the very high risk country framework, and we will provide an update in May on the process for adding new countries to the list, and for removing countries from it. --- Section Separator --- “As previously indicated, the introduction of the Trans-Tasman bubble has provided us the opportunity to rethink our approach to how we manage returnees,” COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins said. Even after 500 rooms are held back for contingency, the availability of the remaining 500 to 800 rooms freed up by the bubble has given us options to manage risk in ways that were not previously available. We said releasing these rooms on a one for one basis for people from higher risk countries was not an option. It would increase risk in the MIQs overall. Today I can confirm most MIQs are introducing an enhanced cohorting (or group intake) system to further reduce risk of in-facility transmission. Under the new plan, returnees arriving in New Zealand over a 96-hour window will be delivered to MIQ facilities until they are full or the 96-hour period is over. The facilities will then ‘lock down’ for a 14-day cycle with no additional returnees allowed until after the last of the cohort have completed their stay and the facilities have been cleaned. This will ensure returnees will be in the same facility as others who have arrived at about the same time, and importantly, will keep those who have just arrived apart from those who are coming to the end of their stay. The Pullman Hotel will be the first managed isolation facility to receive cohorted arrivals, starting tomorrow. The transition will be complete by Sunday, 16 May. Day 0/1 testing, staying in their room until a negative result is returned, Days 3 and 12 testing, limited exposure to others when exercising and smoking, and physical distancing will continue to apply across all facilities. Chris Hipkins said the number of available rooms will be temporarily reduced by bringing forward scheduled hotel maintenance to April-May from July-September. However, thousands of rooms will be freed up to the end of May by MIQ cancelling all remaining vouchers held by travellers from Australia. Note: Special purpose MIQ facilities will not be included in cohorting. This includes the Jet Park quarantine facility and other facilities used for special groups such as refugees, unaccompanied minors, air and maritime crew and people with complex medical needs. The emptying process to transition to enhanced cohorting has already started, with five facilities no longer receiving new returnees to prepare them to receive a cohort of arrivals.
Ministry of Health officials have this evening been advised a worker at a Perth managed isolation facility has tested positive for COVID-19 as part of routine testing. Two of the person’s housemates have also tested positive. Ministry officials have conducted a rapid public health assessment for New Zealand, and have determined scheduled direct flights from Western Australia to New Zealand should be immediately paused while a further assessment is carried out, including a further assessment and information from Australian health officials. Western Australian health officials have determined a number of locations of interest, which are listed on its website. Anyone who has left Perth in the past four days and arrived in New Zealand should check the website. Find out more about the locations of interest (external link) Recent arrivals in New Zealand who have been at these locations of interest should self-isolate immediately and call Healthline in the morning for further advice. Contact Healthline on 0800 358 5453 More information will be released tomorrow.
New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and Cook Islands Prime Minister Mark Brown have today announced that, pending final confirmation by New Zealand’s Director-General of Health and the Cook Islands Secretary of Health, two-way quarantine-free travel will commence between the two countries on 17 May (NZT). “Two way quarantine-free travel is a significant step in both countries’ COVID-19 recovery, and a direct result of both New Zealand and the Cook Islands’ successful response to the pandemic,” Jacinda Ardern said. “It will mean families can reconnect, commercial arrangements can resume and Kiwis can take a much-welcomed winter break and support the Cook Islands’ tourism sector and recovery. “That we can take this step in our recovery so soon after opening the trans-Tasman bubble highlights the benefits of our COVID-19 management, and the opportunities it is now providing New Zealand and our neighbours. “This is a world-leading arrangement and it’s important to remember many other countries still have bans in place on travel for holiday purposes.” Jacinda Ardern said a huge amount of work had gone into ensuring the two-way bubble was safe and that the Cook Islands was set up and ready for it. “The health and safety of the people of the Cook Islands has at all times been paramount. “Vaccination, while not an answer on its own, will provide an added layer of protection once rolled out, and we continue to advance these plans alongside the Cook Islands,” said Jacinda Ardern. “The confirmation of 17 May for the commencement of two-way quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand is the result of our uncompromising commitment to ensuring all necessary health and border measures are instituted to the highest standards of protection against COVID-19 prior to commencement,” Mark Brown said. “Since my visit to New Zealand at the end of March, and various engagements with Prime Minister Ardern and members of her Cabinet, we have jointly elevated effort towards bolstering readiness and response capabilities against COVID-19 in preparation for the safe resumption of two-way quarantine-free travel between our countries. “The learnings from the trans-Tasman arrangement have informed further bolstering of response capabilities by both Governments in preparation for commencement of the Cook Islands - New Zealand quarantine-free travel arrangement. “In close partnership with New Zealand, we are continuing to work through final details for the deployment of vaccines to the Cook Islands and expect to provide further details on the vaccine roll-out within the next week few weeks. “I acknowledge with deepest gratitude our people’s continued trust in our leadership and whole of society endeavour to keep our people safe from the virus, and the incredible work of a steadfast team of committed officials working in close partnership with our community and industry and their New Zealand counterparts. “Today we start our journey of recovery. Today we get back to business. Today with our joint confirmation of the 17 May, we give our people, and particularly our industry, the certainty necessary to institute remaining preparatory steps to once more welcome visitors to our shores.” Commencement of the bubble is subject to a final set of criteria being met, including airline and airport preparedness, all necessary protocols and frameworks being in place, and final sign off from the New Zealand Director-General of Health and the Cook Islands Secretary of Te Marae Ora – Ministry of Health. Full information about quarantine-free travel, including eligibility, what travellers should expect, and updates to requirements, are on: The New Zealand Government COVID-19 website (this website) The Cook Islands Government COVID-19 website (external link) Quarantine-free travel applies to all travellers in New Zealand and the Cook Islands who meet the eligibility requirements to travel. Travellers will have to have been in either the Cook Islands or New Zealand for at least 14 days before travel. This means anyone wanting to travel between Australia and the Cook Islands would need to spend at least 14 days in New Zealand in the middle. No one should travel if they are unwell, if they are waiting on a COVID-19 test, or if they have been in contact with anyone suspected to have COVID-19. There will be no requirement for a pre-departure COVID-19 test, but travellers will have to complete a travel declaration, provide a health declaration and there will be random health checks at airports. Normal immigration rules for entry into each country will continue to apply. Travellers will need to check what that means for their individual situation. From 17 May travellers in both directions will not have to enter managed quarantine facilities. Flights will be operating as ‘green’, with measures in place through the traveller journey to keep travellers separate from ‘red’ flights in and out of New Zealand where passengers need to enter MIQ.
The seven-day rolling average of new cases detected at the border is one. No previously reported cases have recovered. The total number of active cases in New Zealand today is 33. Our total number of confirmed cases is 2,245. Since 1 January 2021, there have been 49 historical cases, out of a total of 429 cases. Quarantine-free travel between Western Australia and New Zealand has been paused after Perth and the outer-metropolitan area of Peel were placed in a three-day COVID-19 lockdown at 12:01am on Saturday 24 April (Western Australia time). New Zealand health officials remain in contact with their Australian counterparts and are closely monitoring the situation in Perth. Both countries have planned for this type of scenario and are following agreed Trans-Tasman bubble protocols. Last night a risk assessment was completed by New Zealand Health authorities and the current risk to New Zealand has been assessed as low. Updates will be provided if there are any changes to the current risk assessment or advice. As per our framework travel to the rest of Australia will continue, but New Zealanders in Australia are asked to follow local guidance and check for places of interest outside of Western Australia. About 1000 passengers who have arrived in New Zealand on direct flights from Perth on 19, 21 and 23 April are being contacted and provided with advice. Information for anyone who is in New Zealand and has been in Perth or Peel since 17 April is on the Western Australia Department of Health site: Learn more about the locations visited by confirmed COVID-19 cases (healthywa.wa.gov.au) (external link) If you have been at one of these locations of interest at the times indicated you should: stay at home or the accommodation you are staying in: get a test five days after your exposure contact Healthline 0800 358 5453. All other people who have been been in Perth and Peel should monitor for COVID-19 symptoms for 14 days after last being in the locations and, if symptoms develop, you should: stay at home get a test In addition, people who were in Terminal 1 of Melbourne Airport between 7.00pm - 7.30pm on 21 April should: stay at home or in the accommodation you are staying in get a test five days after your exposure contact Healthline 0800 358 5453 If you're booked to travel between New Zealand and Western Australia in the next few days, check what you need to do with your airline. Passengers flying to New Zealand from other Australian states will be required to complete pre-departure and arrival declarations advising whether they have been in Perth or Peel since 17 April, and whether they have visited any of the current locations of interest. If people have been to a location of interest they should stay at home, or in their accommodation, and get a test. The total number of tests processed by laboratories to date is 1,997,219. On Friday, 4,511 tests were processed. The seven-day rolling average up to yesterday is 4,078 tests processed. Testing around Auckland will continue this long weekend, with four community testing centres at Northcote, Henderson, Balmoral and Wiri open today. The Balmoral community testing centre will also be open on Sunday and Monday. Testing is also available at after-hours general practices and urgent care clinics over the long weekend. For testing locations in Auckland, visit Auckland Regional Public Health Service (ARPHS) (external link) . For all testing locations nationwide visit the Healthpoint (external link) website. NZ COVID Tracer now has 2,795,430 registered users. Poster scans have reached 254,814,085 and users have created 9,530,632 manual diary entries. There have been 812,324 scans in the last 24 hours to midday yesterday. Please remember to keep a record of where you’ve been while out and about this long weekend. Scanning in has made it so much easier for contact tracing staff to very quickly trace the movements of close and casual plus contacts. It’s a critical element of New Zealand’s response to and fight against COVID-19. Visitors from Australia are reminded that even if their phone region is set to Australia, they can download the NZ COVID Tracer app if they search for the exact name of the app or follow a working link. We recommend people continue to scan NZ COVID Tracer app. The more we all scan, the safer we’ll all be. The data is stored on your phone until you choose to share it. The Ministry’s next update is planned for 1pm tomorrow Anzac Day – Sunday 25 April.
The reported incident was in the Hudson Café in Brisbane airport where two individuals from a red zone country were in the café at the same time as green zone passengers. The risk has been assessed as low. The Ministry of Health understands the two red zone passengers returned negative results prior to departure from their home country. A second test result from swabs taken today has returned a weak positive for one test and a negative result for the other. The three flights affected are: Air New Zealand NZ 202 from Brisbane to Christchurch which arrived around 4.30 pm today Air New Zealand NZ 146 from Brisbane to Auckland which arrived at 5.30 pm Qantas QF 135 from Brisbane to Christchurch Queensland Health have informed the Ministry of Health that the two red zone passengers were wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and are not symptomatic. Additional testing is being coordinated by Queensland Health. Each plane has been met by officials who provided information to passengers alerting them to the potential breach and providing advice about monitoring their health for the next two weeks and contacting Healthline and getting tested if symptoms develop.
Get the latest information about quarantine-free travel between Western Australia and New Zealand. Western Australia — quarantine-free travel --- Section Separator --- The Government will decide on its response tomorrow, Tuesday 27 April, after considering further advice from health officials. Western Australia recorded no new cases of COVID-19 overnight and New Zealand health officials were again in contact with their Australian counterparts today. Our risk assessment remains that the public health risk to New Zealand is low. Some additional information from Western Australia, however, particularly more results from the additional testing that has been done, are expected to be available tomorrow. Until then, travel between New Zealand and Western Australia will remain paused. The first scheduled flight from Western Australia would be scheduled to leave Tuesday night New Zealand time and we are working to be able to confirm our position as soon as possible to give those passengers certainty. Contact tracing for the passengers who arrived in New Zealand on direct flights from Perth on 19, 21 and 23 April is largely completed. The number of passengers is now confirmed at 664, an update on the early estimate of 1,000 provided by the Ministry of Health yesterday. All but 7 have now been contacted. An update on the two casual contacts in New Zealand potentially linked to the Western Australian cases, and the results of their tests, is expected tomorrow by the Ministry.
Get the latest information about quarantine-free travel between Western Australia and New Zealand. Western Australia — quarantine-free travel --- Section Separator --- As set out in our Trans-Tasman bubble protocols, travel between New Zealand and Western Australia has been paused, pending further advice from the state government. New Zealand health officials are in contact with their Australian counterparts and are completing a risk assessment. A flight due to leave Perth for New Zealand later tonight will not take off following Western Australia’s decision, and any New Zealanders affected are asked to follow the advice of Western Australian authorities. All passengers on an earlier flight from Perth to Melbourne that carried a passenger later found to have COVID-19 have been contact traced and no-one on that flight has travelled on to New Zealand. This is an example of the type of scenario both countries have planned for. Another update will be provided tomorrow.
New Zealand’s successful management of COVID means quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and Australia will start on Monday 19 April. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins confirmed the conditions for starting to open up quarantine free travel with Australia have been met. The Director-General of Health considers the risk of transmission of COVID-19 from Australia to New Zealand is low and that quarantine free travel is safe to commence. Our team’s success in managing COVID-19 and keeping it out over the past 12 months now opens up the opportunity to reconnect with loved ones and resume Trans-Tasman travel. One sacrifice that has been particularly hard for many to bear over the past year has been the separation from friends and family who live in Australia, so today’s announcement will be a great relief for many. The bubble will give our economic recovery a boost and represents a world leading arrangement of safely opening up international travel while continuing to pursue a strategy of elimination and keeping the virus out. We have worked hard to ensure travel is safe and that the necessary public health measures are in place. Quarantine free travel will not be what it was pre-COVID-19, and those undertaking travel will do so under the guidance of ‘flyer beware’. People will need to plan for the possibility of having travel disrupted if there is an outbreak. Just as we have our Alert Level settings for managing cases in New Zealand, we will also now have a framework for managing New Zealanders in the event of an outbreak in Australia, which involves three possible scenarios: continue, pause, suspend. Quarantine-free travel between Australia and New Zealand --- Section Separator --- To ensure New Zealand remains on top of COVID-19, the Government has added further layers to manage risk at the border. To be eligible to travel to or from New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, people must not have had a positive COVID-19 test result in the previous 14-day period and must not be awaiting the results of a COVID-19 test taken during that period. When those in Australia decide to come to New Zealand, they will be making a booking on a green zone flight. That means that there will be no passengers on that flight who have come from anywhere but Australia in the last 14 days. They will also be flown by crew who have not flown on any high risk routes for a set period of time. Passengers will need to provide comprehensive information on how they can be contacted while in New Zealand, complete a pre-departure health declaration and won’t be able to travel if they have cold or flu symptoms. When they fly, they will be required to wear a mask on their flight, and will also be asked to download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app while in New Zealand. On arrival, passengers will be taken through what we call the green zones at the airport – meaning there will be no contact with those who are arriving from other parts of the world and going into managed isolation or quarantine. We will also be undertaking random temperature checks of those arriving as an added precaution. Final infection control audits for airports in particular are occurring over the next two weeks and are a requirement for each airport to operate. The Ministry of Health expects to have completed these and to have reported on them on 16 April. --- Section Separator --- It is estimated the bubble will free up 1,000 to 1,300 rooms per fortnight within Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ). Of these, we will retain roughly 500 spaces as contingency should they be needed for the Trans-Tasman arrangement. We also have a small number of facilities that we consider to have only been suitable for travelers in quarantine from low risk countries. With the opening of travel, we will look to decommission these facilities – but in the meantime we are considering whether they could be used for other low risk countries, such as the Pacific Islands. As a result of this, we do not anticipate a large number of vacant quarantine spaces to come on stream. There will, however, still be thousands of spaces in MIQ for Kiwis. That’s how we have helped 130,000 safely return home through our managed isolation facilities.
Quarantine-free travel will be recommenced from Western Australia at 12 noon, 28 April 2021 for travellers who have not been identified as contacts. For those identified as close contacts, they will need to complete 14 days of self-isolation and provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 test before departure for New Zealand. All casual contacts — those who were at the locations of interest at the published time — will need to self-isolate for 5 days and receive a negative test. An additional New Zealand requirement means they will need to continue to monitor their symptoms in place and will not be allowed to travel to New Zealand until 14 days after they were at the location of interest. The Government is satisfied the risk is low, based on the advice of the Director-General of Health, and that the trans-Tasman bubble is working largely as planned. The advice is that the Perth cluster appears to be contained and the post-lockdown transition response measures the Western Australia Government introduced will provide an additional layer of assurance. These include mandatory mask wearing in public, while at work and on public transport unless exemptions apply; 20-person limit for private indoor and outdoor gatherings as well as bars, restaurants and cafes; and no visitors to aged and disability care facilities and hospitals, except for compassionate reasons and advocacy. The measures will be in place until 12:01am on Saturday 1 May 2021.
There are no new cases in the community to report today. There are 4 new positive cases of COVID-19 to report in managed isolation since the media statement yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new cases in the community to report today. There are two new positive cases of COVID-19 to report in managed isolation since the last media statement yesterday. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new cases in the community to report today. There is one new positive case of COVID-19 to report in managed isolation since the last media statement yesterday. The new case is a contact of a previously reported case who is in quarantine. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new cases in the community to report today. There are 2 new positive cases of COVID-19 to report in managed isolation since yesterday. The seven-day rolling average of new cases detected at the border is 2. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new community cases of COVID-19 to report today. There is one border worker who has returned a positive test result for COVID-19 — they work at Auckland Airport. The usual protocol of isolating the case, interviewing them and tracing their contacts and movements is underway. More information will be provided later today and this case will be included in tomorrow's totals. There is one historical case of COVID-19 to report since yesterday — this case is a recent returnee who is considered recovered. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new community cases of COVID-19 to report today. There are 3 cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation. Read the update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new cases in the community to report today. There are also no new positive cases of COVID-19 to report in managed isolation since yesterday. Read the update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
No new community cases; 3 new cases of COVID-19 in managed isolation. Read the update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community today. There are four new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities since our last update yesterday. Read the update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
There are no new cases of COVID-19 to report in the community today. There are also no new cases to report in recent returnees in managed isolation facilities. Read the update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 11-20 of 315 updates 28 Apr 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 27 Apr 2021 New Zealand will lift the travel pause with Western Australia, effective from midday tomorrow. 27 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Apr 2021 The New Zealand Government acknowledges Western Australia’s decision to end its lockdown, with limited restrictions still in place. 24 Apr 2021 There are no new cases in the community to report today. There are two new positive cases of COVID-19 to report in managed isolation since yesterday. 23 Apr 2021 Travel between New Zealand and Western Australia has been paused due to the 3-day lockdown in Perth. 23 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Apr 2021 The Government is taking significant additional steps to make our borders even safer. 23 Apr 2021 Watch the COVID-19 travel media conference with government officials and ministers. 22 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 21-30 of 315 updates 21 Apr 2021 How to keep yourself and others safe if you've recently arrived in New Zealand, or if you just need a reminder. 21 Apr 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Apr 2021 The Ministry of Health believes today's border-related case has a clear link to the border as the source of the infection. 20 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Apr 2021 Hundreds more families who were separated by the border closure will be reunited under new border exceptions announced today. 19 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 16 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Apr 2021 Watch the media panel to update and provide more detail on the COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan at 3:15pm. 15 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Apr 2021 A trial is underway to see if an app connected to wearable smart devices can detect COVID-19 in border workers before they experience symptoms.
Displaying 271-280 of 315 updates 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today.
Displaying 281-290 of 315 updates 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland.
Displaying 291-300 of 315 updates 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
Displaying 31-40 of 315 updates 14 Apr 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 13 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 Apr 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials. 11 Apr 2021 A worker at the Grand Millennium managed isolation facility – who is a close contact of the case reported on Thursday – has tested positive for COVID-19. 09 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Apr 2021 Watch the media conference with the Prime Minister 08 Apr 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 08 Apr 2021 A strategic public health advisory group has been set up to provide independent advice and analysis to the Government. 07 Apr 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Apr 2021 New Zealand’s successful management of COVID means quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and Australia will start on Monday 19 April.
Displaying 301-310 of 315 updates 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases.
Displaying 311-315 of 315 updates 10 Jun 2020 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 41-50 of 315 updates 06 Apr 2021 Watch the post-Cabinet media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Apr 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Mar 2021 COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins and Associate Health Minister Ayesha Verrall talk about getting their first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. 30 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 29 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials. 25 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 51-60 of 315 updates 25 Mar 2021 11:59pm on 25 March 2020 was the moment when Aotearoa went into Alert Level 4, the highest level of lockdown, to contain the initial COVID-19 outbreaks. 24 Mar 2021 There will be strict criteria for early vaccinations for people who need to leave New Zealand on compassionate grounds or for reasons of national significance. 24 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 23 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 22 Mar 2021 An online tool to help you work out which vaccination group you are in is now available on our website. 22 Mar 2021 The Ministry of Health is reporting this evening a positive Covid-19 test result in a managed isolation worker at the Grand Millennium Hotel, Auckland. 17 Mar 2021 The second round of COVID-19 vaccine doses for border and MIQ workers is underway. 17 Mar 2021 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 16 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Mar 2021 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Misinformation and scams Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Proactive release Proactive release Alternate formats Translations COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Updates and resources Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Beware of misinformation on social media and other sources. Only share information from official sources. Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the virus. You can always find accurate and timely information on our website and through our social channels. Social media and newsletters The World Health Organization also provides a comprehensive list of COVID-19 information, including common misconceptions and misinformation. COVID-19 advice for the public: Mythbusters (external link) Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 have been noted overseas and are expected to be seen in New Zealand. They may arrive in the form of an email, text, phone call or through social media. If you receive a scam or anything that you suspect is a scam, you can report it to CERT NZ to investigate. Report a scam to CERT NZ (external link) For more information on what to watch out for and where to report scams, visit the following websites: COVID-19 vaccine scams: CERT NZ (external link) COVID-19 phishing and cyber scams: CERT NZ (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) General COVID-19 scam information: CFFC (external link) Netsafe website (external link) Scamwatch: Consumer protection website (external link) It is not illegal for businesses to increase their prices; however, the Fair Trading Act prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct and false representations. This means that if a business gives a reason for a price increase it legally must be true, otherwise the business risks breaching the law. If you suspect a business is providing false or misleading information as to why prices have increased, you can make a complaint to the Commerce Commission. Make a complaint on the Commerce Commission website (external link) Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on essential goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) --- Section Separator --- Beware of misinformation on social media and other sources. Only share information from official sources. Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the virus. You can always find accurate and timely information on our website and through our social channels. Social media and newsletters The World Health Organization also provides a comprehensive list of COVID-19 information, including common misconceptions and misinformation. COVID-19 advice for the public: Mythbusters (external link) --- Section Separator --- Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 have been noted overseas and are expected to be seen in New Zealand. They may arrive in the form of an email, text, phone call or through social media. If you receive a scam or anything that you suspect is a scam, you can report it to CERT NZ to investigate. Report a scam to CERT NZ (external link) For more information on what to watch out for and where to report scams, visit the following websites: COVID-19 vaccine scams: CERT NZ (external link) COVID-19 phishing and cyber scams: CERT NZ (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) General COVID-19 scam information: CFFC (external link) Netsafe website (external link) Scamwatch: Consumer protection website (external link) --- Section Separator --- It is not illegal for businesses to increase their prices; however, the Fair Trading Act prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct and false representations. This means that if a business gives a reason for a price increase it legally must be true, otherwise the business risks breaching the law. If you suspect a business is providing false or misleading information as to why prices have increased, you can make a complaint to the Commerce Commission. Make a complaint on the Commerce Commission website (external link) Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on essential goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Misinformation and scams Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Alternate formats Translations COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Updates and resources Posters --- Section Separator --- Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour — just adjust your printer settings. All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 192 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes — All Alert Levels [PDF, 82 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to wear a face covering safely How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to make a face covering Wash and dry your hands (simple) — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At Alert Level 2, your workplace legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need an alternative system to record workers. There is no requirement at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. You can use these templates at your workplace: Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you're waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and dry your hands poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] Please sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please don't sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] Testing station parking poster A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Testing station parking poster A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Be kind [PNG, 85 KB] If you are sick or have symptoms, stay home [PNG, 98 KB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PNG, 97 KB] Please keep 2 metres apart [PNG, 103 KB] Scanning in helps to keep us open [PNG, 137 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PNG, 133 KB] Wash and sanitise hands often [PNG, 123 KB] Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour — just adjust your printer settings. --- Section Separator --- All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing [PDF, 192 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes — All Alert Levels [PDF, 82 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to wear a face covering safely How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to make a face covering Wash and dry your hands (simple) — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At Alert Level 2, your workplace legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need an alternative system to record workers. There is no requirement at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. You can use these templates at your workplace: Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you're waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and dry your hands poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wear a face covering on public transport and planes [PDF, 82 KB] Please sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please don't sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Testing station parking poster A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Testing station parking poster A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Be kind [PNG, 85 KB] If you are sick or have symptoms, stay home [PNG, 98 KB] Please keep 1 metre apart [PNG, 97 KB] Please keep 2 metres apart [PNG, 103 KB] Scanning in helps to keep us open [PNG, 137 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [PNG, 133 KB] Wash and sanitise hands often [PNG, 123 KB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings campaign poster [PDF, 5.6 MB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 389 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 538 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1024x512px [JPG, 405 KB] Face coverings digi-screen — 1152x640px [JPG, 571 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Misinformation and scams Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Alternate formats Translations COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Updates and resources Social media and newsletters --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Social media community guidelines Social media community guidelines Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Misinformation and scams Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Alternate formats Translations COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā tohutohu Reo Māori. --- Section Separator --- Kia mataara tonu mai ki ngā pārongo whakahou KŌWHEORI-19 a te Kāwanatanga. Stay up to date with the Government’s latest COVID-19 information. Kia puta ake he pārongo hou kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori ka tuku whakaohiti mātou ki a koe mā te īmēra. Whenever any new translated information is published in Māori, we will send an email to alert you. Hono mai | Sign up (external link) --- Section Separator --- He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate Vaccine overview Rapua āhea taea ai e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Find out when you can get a vaccine Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate After your immunisation --- Section Separator --- Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria Quarantine-Free Travel between New Zealand and Australia Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate The COVID-19 virus and symptoms He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika Getting the right information matters Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona If you test positive to COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau Testing Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere Turn on Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- Te noho i te pae 1 Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 Living at Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Hei āwhina tangata Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Te akuaku Hygiene posters Tohu whakamana ki o marae Posters for your marae Taku puka-iti mō NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai [PDF, 97 KB] Face coverings and masks Whāia ōu tapuwae [PDF, 125 KB] Track your journey Kia haumaru te haere [PDF, 119 KB] Travel safely Kotahi tau i muri mai: Te rāhuitanga Pae Mataara 4 (external link) One year on: Alert Level 4 lockdown
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview --- Section Separator --- He wāhanga mātuatua ngā kano ārai mate e haumaru ana, e whaihua ana hoki ki te āhua o tā tātou tiaki i a Aotearoa me ngā kiritata kei Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa i a KOWHEORI-19. Ka whakahirahira hoki ngā kano ārai mate ki tō tātou haumanutanga ā-ōhanga, ki te huakanga anō hoki o ō tātou ripa tauārai. Ka utu-kore ngā kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19. Kāore te marea o Aotearoa e herea e te ture kia werohia. Ka puta te tiakanga i ngā kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mō ngā tau e tū mai nei. Heoi, me mahi tonu tātou katoa ki te aukati tonu i a KOWHEORI-19 i ō tātou hapori. Me mātua ū tātou ki ngā ture matua e whā: te horoi ringa, te karapa tohu urupare-wawe (QR), te whakakā i te hono iarere (Bluetooth) me te noho i te kāinga ina pāngia e te māuiui. I a tātou ka uru ki tēnei wāhanga hou o tā tātou pakanga ki a KOWHEORI-19, e whakahirahira rawa ake ana te whai pārongo i ngā puna e whakaaetia ana. Ka raru tātou i te hē o te pārongo, i te wā me mātua mahi tahi tātou hei aukati i te wheori. Ka kitea he pārongo e pono ana; i tō Tākuta, i a Healthline, i tō Poari Hauora ā-Takiwā, i te Manatū Hauora, i te pae tukutuku hoki o Unite Against Covid-19, i www.covid19.govt.nz Kua aromātaihia, kua whakaaetia hoki e Medsafe te whakamahinga o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech ki Aotearoa. Ko Medsafe te kaiwhakarite ā-rongoā i Aotearoa e motuhake ana. Ko tāna he aromātai i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate. Me ū ngā kano ārai mate ki ngā paerewa ā-ao, ki ngā here ā-takiwā hoki e pā ana ki te kounga, ki te haumarutanga me te whaihua i mua i te whakaaetanga me te whakamahinga ki Aotearoa. Kua mau i te Kāwanatanga he putunga kano ārai mate nā Pfizer/BioNTech hei tuku ki te katoa o te motu whānui, hei tautoko hoki i ō tātou kiritata kei Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa. 10 miriona te tapeke o ngā pota o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech ka noho ki Aotearoa. Ka nui tēnei hei wero i te 5 miriona tāngata ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 me mātua whai e rātou. E utu-kore ana te wātea o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 ki te katoa o Aotearoa, ahakoa te āhua ki tō kōkota, ki tō kirirarautanga rānei. Ina kohia he pārongo, e kore e whakamahia mō ngā take manene. E whakarite ana a Te Manatū Hauora i tētahi mahere e tōkeke ai te tohaina o ngā kano ārai mate. Ka noho mātāmua ko ērā e mōrearea ake ana i a KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i ngā kaimahi i te ripa tauārai, i ngā kaimahi hauora, i ngā Māori, i ngā uri o Te Moananui- a-Kiwa, i ngā kaumātua me ngā hauā. Ko te hunga tuatahi ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā ripa tauārai, kei ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi hoki nā ō rātou tūranga mahi hei aukati tonu i a KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka whai wāhi mai ki tēnei rōpū ko ngā kaiwhakapaipai, ko ngā nēhi e whakahaere ana i ngā arowhai hauora i ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi, ko ngā kaiwhakahaumaru, ko ngā āpiha o te mana ārai, o te ripa tauārai anō hoki, ko ngā kaimahi hōtēra me ētahi atu. Ko te hunga hoki e noho tahi ana ki a rātou ngā tāngata tuatahi ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate. Kua whakaaetia e Medsafe te whakamahinga o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech i raro i ngā aratohu e whai ake nei: kua whakaaetia kia tukuna te kano ārai mate ki ngā tāngata kua 16 tau, kua pakeke ake rānei i tērā. e tohungia ana ngā wāhine hapū kia kōrero ki ō rātou tākuta mō ngā tūraru me ngā hua o te werohia o rātou ki te kano ārai mate. e wātea ana te whakamahia o te kano ārai mate e ngā wāhine pipī waiū. ko ngā tūroro e whāngaihia ana ki ngā haumanu motuhake, tae atu ki a Keytruda, ki a Opdivo, ki a Yervoy, ki a Tecentriq hoki me whai tohutohu i ō rātou mātanga i mua i te werohia ki tā Pfizer kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 ā-mRNA nei. ko ngā tāngata e werohia nei ki te kano ārai mate ka whakawhiwhia ki te pārongo e pā ana ki ngā huamate māori e matapaetia ana, hei tauira, ko te kirikā, ko te mamae o ngā uaua me te ruha. me 20 meneti rawa te roa o te mātakina o te tangata i muri tonu i te werohia ōna ki te kano ārai mate. Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo anō mō tā Aotearoa toha i ngā kano ārai mate Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta i te wā o te werohia ōu Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta i muri i te werohia ōu E wawe rawa ana kia mōhio tātou ki te āhua o tā te wātea o ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, i te ao whānui hoki whakaaweawe i ngā panonitanga ki ō tātou herenga i ngā ripa tauārai. E mahi ana ngā kairangahau ki te whakaū i te noho tonu rānei a te tangata kua werohia hei kaituku, ka tuku ai i a KOWHEORI-19 ki tangata kē atu. Kia tūturu rā anō tērā pārongo, me ū tonu ā tātou whakaritenga i ngā ripa tauārai o te wā nei. --- Section Separator --- He wāhanga mātuatua ngā kano ārai mate e haumaru ana, e whaihua ana hoki ki te āhua o tā tātou tiaki i a Aotearoa me ngā kiritata kei Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa i a KOWHEORI-19. Ka whakahirahira hoki ngā kano ārai mate ki tō tātou haumanutanga ā-ōhanga, ki te huakanga anō hoki o ō tātou ripa tauārai. Ka utu-kore ngā kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19. Kāore te marea o Aotearoa e herea e te ture kia werohia. Ka puta te tiakanga i ngā kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mō ngā tau e tū mai nei. Heoi, me mahi tonu tātou katoa ki te aukati tonu i a KOWHEORI-19 i ō tātou hapori. Me mātua ū tātou ki ngā ture matua e whā: te horoi ringa, te karapa tohu urupare-wawe (QR), te whakakā i te hono iarere (Bluetooth) me te noho i te kāinga ina pāngia e te māuiui. I a tātou ka uru ki tēnei wāhanga hou o tā tātou pakanga ki a KOWHEORI-19, e whakahirahira rawa ake ana te whai pārongo i ngā puna e whakaaetia ana. Ka raru tātou i te hē o te pārongo, i te wā me mātua mahi tahi tātou hei aukati i te wheori. Ka kitea he pārongo e pono ana; i tō Tākuta, i a Healthline, i tō Poari Hauora ā-Takiwā, i te Manatū Hauora, i te pae tukutuku hoki o Unite Against Covid-19, i www.covid19.govt.nz Kua aromātaihia, kua whakaaetia hoki e Medsafe te whakamahinga o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech ki Aotearoa. Ko Medsafe te kaiwhakarite ā-rongoā i Aotearoa e motuhake ana. Ko tāna he aromātai i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate. Me ū ngā kano ārai mate ki ngā paerewa ā-ao, ki ngā here ā-takiwā hoki e pā ana ki te kounga, ki te haumarutanga me te whaihua i mua i te whakaaetanga me te whakamahinga ki Aotearoa. Kua mau i te Kāwanatanga he putunga kano ārai mate nā Pfizer/BioNTech hei tuku ki te katoa o te motu whānui, hei tautoko hoki i ō tātou kiritata kei Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa. 10 miriona te tapeke o ngā pota o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech ka noho ki Aotearoa. Ka nui tēnei hei wero i te 5 miriona tāngata ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 me mātua whai e rātou. E utu-kore ana te wātea o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 ki te katoa o Aotearoa, ahakoa te āhua ki tō kōkota, ki tō kirirarautanga rānei. Ina kohia he pārongo, e kore e whakamahia mō ngā take manene. E whakarite ana a Te Manatū Hauora i tētahi mahere e tōkeke ai te tohaina o ngā kano ārai mate. Ka noho mātāmua ko ērā e mōrearea ake ana i a KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i ngā kaimahi i te ripa tauārai, i ngā kaimahi hauora, i ngā Māori, i ngā uri o Te Moananui- a-Kiwa, i ngā kaumātua me ngā hauā. Ko te hunga tuatahi ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā ripa tauārai, kei ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi hoki nā ō rātou tūranga mahi hei aukati tonu i a KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka whai wāhi mai ki tēnei rōpū ko ngā kaiwhakapaipai, ko ngā nēhi e whakahaere ana i ngā arowhai hauora i ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi, ko ngā kaiwhakahaumaru, ko ngā āpiha o te mana ārai, o te ripa tauārai anō hoki, ko ngā kaimahi hōtēra me ētahi atu. Ko te hunga hoki e noho tahi ana ki a rātou ngā tāngata tuatahi ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate. Kua whakaaetia e Medsafe te whakamahinga o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech i raro i ngā aratohu e whai ake nei: kua whakaaetia kia tukuna te kano ārai mate ki ngā tāngata kua 16 tau, kua pakeke ake rānei i tērā. e tohungia ana ngā wāhine hapū kia kōrero ki ō rātou tākuta mō ngā tūraru me ngā hua o te werohia o rātou ki te kano ārai mate. e wātea ana te whakamahia o te kano ārai mate e ngā wāhine pipī waiū. ko ngā tūroro e whāngaihia ana ki ngā haumanu motuhake, tae atu ki a Keytruda, ki a Opdivo, ki a Yervoy, ki a Tecentriq hoki me whai tohutohu i ō rātou mātanga i mua i te werohia ki tā Pfizer kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 ā-mRNA nei. ko ngā tāngata e werohia nei ki te kano ārai mate ka whakawhiwhia ki te pārongo e pā ana ki ngā huamate māori e matapaetia ana, hei tauira, ko te kirikā, ko te mamae o ngā uaua me te ruha. me 20 meneti rawa te roa o te mātakina o te tangata i muri tonu i te werohia ōna ki te kano ārai mate. Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo anō mō tā Aotearoa toha i ngā kano ārai mate Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta i te wā o te werohia ōu Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta i muri i te werohia ōu E wawe rawa ana kia mōhio tātou ki te āhua o tā te wātea o ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, i te ao whānui hoki whakaaweawe i ngā panonitanga ki ō tātou herenga i ngā ripa tauārai. E mahi ana ngā kairangahau ki te whakaū i te noho tonu rānei a te tangata kua werohia hei kaituku, ka tuku ai i a KOWHEORI-19 ki tangata kē atu. Kia tūturu rā anō tērā pārongo, me ū tonu ā tātou whakaritenga i ngā ripa tauārai o te wā nei. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate | After your immunisation --- Section Separator --- Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Koinei tā te tinana urupare māori atu, ā, he tohu tēnei kei te whaihua te kano ārai mate. I te nuinga o te wā, he māmā noa iho te pānga, ka mutu kāore e roa taua pānga, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. He wā ōna ka puta he pāwera tino kino engari me uaua ka pērā. Kua whakangungua ngā kaiwero o Aotearoa ki te whakahaere i ērā āhuatanga. Ko ētahi mate āpiti ka pā pea ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ki te tūpono puta tēnei tūāhuatanga, tēnā kōrerohia atu ki tō kaituku mahi. Mēnā ka rongo koe i ētahi tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i tētahi maremare e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka whai ai i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka tūpono puta tētahi tauhohenga ki tō werohanga mō KOWHEORI-19, me whāki atu e tō kaiwero, e tō mātanga hauora rānei ki te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). E pai ana hoki tō whāki tōtika atu i ngā tauhohenga ka tūpono pā mā te tuku īmēra ki a CARM, mā te whakakī rānei i tā rātou puka whāki ā-ipurangi kei te pae tukutuku a CARM, kei otago.ac.nz/carm (external link) . Mēnā ka matawaenga koe e pā ana ki ō tohumate, mēnā rānei ka kino ake, kōrero ki tō tākuta, waea atu rānei ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ā, kī atu ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 e tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. --- Section Separator --- Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Koinei tā te tinana urupare māori atu, ā, he tohu tēnei kei te whaihua te kano ārai mate. I te nuinga o te wā, he māmā noa iho te pānga, ka mutu kāore e roa taua pānga, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. He wā ōna ka puta he pāwera tino kino engari me uaua ka pērā. Kua whakangungua ngā kaiwero o Aotearoa ki te whakahaere i ērā āhuatanga. Ko ētahi mate āpiti ka pā pea ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ki te tūpono puta tēnei tūāhuatanga, tēnā kōrerohia atu ki tō kaituku mahi. Mēnā ka rongo koe i ētahi tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pēnei i tētahi maremare e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, ka whai ai i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka tūpono puta tētahi tauhohenga ki tō werohanga mō KOWHEORI-19, me whāki atu e tō kaiwero, e tō mātanga hauora rānei ki te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). E pai ana hoki tō whāki tōtika atu i ngā tauhohenga ka tūpono pā mā te tuku īmēra ki a CARM, mā te whakakī rānei i tā rātou puka whāki ā-ipurangi kei te pae tukutuku a CARM, kei otago.ac.nz/carm (external link) . Mēnā ka matawaenga koe e pā ana ki ō tohumate, mēnā rānei ka kino ake, kōrero ki tō tākuta, waea atu rānei ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ā, kī atu ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 e tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Misinformation and scams Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect --- Section Separator --- Ko ngā kano ārai mate tētahi huarahi e ārai ai tātou i te mate urutā o KOWHEORI-19, hei tiaki hoki i te oranga o ō tātou hapori. Kāore he utu o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka tiaki ngā kano ārai mate i tō hauora, ā, ka ārai atu i te mate mā te mahi tahi me ngā wāhanga papare o tō tinana e kaha ai koe ki te ārai atu i te wheori, mehemea ka noho mōrearea koe. Ka whaihua te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mā te whakaoho i tō pūnaha awhikiri e hua mai ai ngā paturopi, ngā pūtau toto hoki e whai nei ki te ārai i te wheori o KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 tētahi mahi hei whāinga māu e ārai ai koe i a koe anō i ngā pānga o te wheori. Heoi anō, kāore mātou i te mōhio mēnā ka riro mā tēnei e mutu ai tō pāngia rānei e te wheori, tō whakapā atu rānei i te wheori ki tangata kē. Kia uru ki a koe te kano ārai mate, me tūpato tonu hei aukati wawe i te horapa haeretanga o KOWHEORI-19. Me āta horoi, me āta whakamaroke hoki ō ringaringa. Me maremare, me matihe hoki ki tō tuke, ā, me noho ki te kāinga mehemea ka māuiui koe. Mā tēnei koe e āwhina ki te tiaki i a koe anō, i tō whānau, i ētahi atu hoki. Me whakamahi tonu i te taupānga whakatewhatewha mō KOWHEORI, whakakāngia te wāhanga o te Hono Iarere o tō waea, ā, tērā pea ka hiahia koe ki te mau i tō tākai mata, i tō ārai mata rānei. Whakaae noa ai a Medsafe kia whakamahia te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa i te wā e whakaae ana rātou kua eke ki te taumata o te haumaru, o te whaihua hoki e tika ana kia whakamahia. Kotahi tonu te whakamātautau haumaru me whai e ngā kano ārai mate katoa e pā ana ki a KOWHEORI- 19, ka mutu me eke te katoa ki ōna paerewa ruarangi e ōrite ana. Kāore koe e pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 mā tēnei kano ārai mate. Me rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga, kia āhua toru wiki te roa i waenga i ngā mea e rua. E eke ai te tiakanga ōu ki te taumata, me whai koe kia rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga ōu ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore koe e tae atu i te wā kua whakaritea, me wawe tonu tō whakarite i tētahi atu wā. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te pāwera kino rawa atu, mēnā rānei i tere tonu te pāngia ōu e te pāwera nā te kano ārai mate, nā te werohanga rānei i mua, tēnā kōrerotia tēnei ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki te rongoā whakawaiwai toto, mēnā rānei e pāngia ana koe e te mate ā-toto, whakamōhiotia te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e hapū ana koe, e whāngai pēpē ana rānei koe ki te ū, tēnā kōrero atu ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate, ki tō tākuta rānei, ki tō tapuhi whakawhānau rānei. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki ngā rongoā mō te mate pukupuku, arā, ki a Keytruda rānei, ki a Opdivo rānei, ki a Yervoy rānei, ki a Tecentriq rānei, kōrero ki tō mātanga e mōhio ai koe mēnā me whāngai koe ki te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā, kāore mātou i te whakawātea i te kano ārai mate a Pfizer ki te hunga e tamariki ake ana i te 16 tau te pakeke kia wātea mai he raraunga atu anō. Mēnā e rongo ana koe i ngā tohumate o KOWHEORI-19, whāia kia whakamātauhia koe, ā, e noho ki te kāinga tae noa ki te wā ka whiwhi koe i ngā hua mōu. E whakaaetia ana kia whāngaia koe ki te kano ārai mate ā te wā tonu e kī ana ngā hua o tō whakamātautau kāore koe e pāngia ana . Me tatari kia pau te 20 meneti i muri i te whāngaia ōu ki te kano ārai mate kia kite ai ngā kaimahi hauora kāore e pērā rawa ana te kino o te pāngia ōu e te pāwera. Ko te kōrero nui katoa ka puta mō ngā tauhohenga, ko te mamae o te wāhi i werohia ai, ko te ānini o te māhunga, ko te rongo rānei i te ngenge, i te ruha rānei. Tērā pea ka rangona hoki te mamae o ngā uaua, te māuiui noa iho nei, te hūwiniwini, te kirikā, te mamae o ngā ponapona me te whakapai ruaki. He tohu tēnei e whaihua ana te kano ārai mate. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Ko aua mate rā ka kitea nuitia ana, ka māmā noa iho i te nuinga o te wā, ka mutu kāore e roa ana te mate, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka pā pea ētahi mate āpiti ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. He wā ōna ka puta ētahi mate pāwera kino nei, engari me uaua ka kitea. Kua whakangungua ā mātou kaiwhāngai i te tangata ki te kano ārai mate kia whakahaerehia ēnei āhuatanga. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te maremare hou e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, whakaritea hoki kia whakamātautauria tō tinana mō KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kāore koe i te mōhio ki te āhua o ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waeahia te Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ka āta kī atu ai ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. www.health.govt.nz/covid-vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko ngā kano ārai mate tētahi huarahi e ārai ai tātou i te mate urutā o KOWHEORI-19, hei tiaki hoki i te oranga o ō tātou hapori. Kāore he utu o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka tiaki ngā kano ārai mate i tō hauora, ā, ka ārai atu i te mate mā te mahi tahi me ngā wāhanga papare o tō tinana e kaha ai koe ki te ārai atu i te wheori, mehemea ka noho mōrearea koe. Ka whaihua te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mā te whakaoho i tō pūnaha awhikiri e hua mai ai ngā paturopi, ngā pūtau toto hoki e whai nei ki te ārai i te wheori o KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 tētahi mahi hei whāinga māu e ārai ai koe i a koe anō i ngā pānga o te wheori. Heoi anō, kāore mātou i te mōhio mēnā ka riro mā tēnei e mutu ai tō pāngia rānei e te wheori, tō whakapā atu rānei i te wheori ki tangata kē. Kia uru ki a koe te kano ārai mate, me tūpato tonu hei aukati wawe i te horapa haeretanga o KOWHEORI-19. Me āta horoi, me āta whakamaroke hoki ō ringaringa. Me maremare, me matihe hoki ki tō tuke, ā, me noho ki te kāinga mehemea ka māuiui koe. Mā tēnei koe e āwhina ki te tiaki i a koe anō, i tō whānau, i ētahi atu hoki. Me whakamahi tonu i te taupānga whakatewhatewha mō KOWHEORI, whakakāngia te wāhanga o te Hono Iarere o tō waea, ā, tērā pea ka hiahia koe ki te mau i tō tākai mata, i tō ārai mata rānei. Whakaae noa ai a Medsafe kia whakamahia te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa i te wā e whakaae ana rātou kua eke ki te taumata o te haumaru, o te whaihua hoki e tika ana kia whakamahia. Kotahi tonu te whakamātautau haumaru me whai e ngā kano ārai mate katoa e pā ana ki a KOWHEORI- 19, ka mutu me eke te katoa ki ōna paerewa ruarangi e ōrite ana. Kāore koe e pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 mā tēnei kano ārai mate. Me rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga, kia āhua toru wiki te roa i waenga i ngā mea e rua. E eke ai te tiakanga ōu ki te taumata, me whai koe kia rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga ōu ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore koe e tae atu i te wā kua whakaritea, me wawe tonu tō whakarite i tētahi atu wā. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te pāwera kino rawa atu, mēnā rānei i tere tonu te pāngia ōu e te pāwera nā te kano ārai mate, nā te werohanga rānei i mua, tēnā kōrerotia tēnei ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki te rongoā whakawaiwai toto, mēnā rānei e pāngia ana koe e te mate ā-toto, whakamōhiotia te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e hapū ana koe, e whāngai pēpē ana rānei koe ki te ū, tēnā kōrero atu ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate, ki tō tākuta rānei, ki tō tapuhi whakawhānau rānei. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki ngā rongoā mō te mate pukupuku, arā, ki a Keytruda rānei, ki a Opdivo rānei, ki a Yervoy rānei, ki a Tecentriq rānei, kōrero ki tō mātanga e mōhio ai koe mēnā me whāngai koe ki te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā, kāore mātou i te whakawātea i te kano ārai mate a Pfizer ki te hunga e tamariki ake ana i te 16 tau te pakeke kia wātea mai he raraunga atu anō. Mēnā e rongo ana koe i ngā tohumate o KOWHEORI-19, whāia kia whakamātauhia koe, ā, e noho ki te kāinga tae noa ki te wā ka whiwhi koe i ngā hua mōu. E whakaaetia ana kia whāngaia koe ki te kano ārai mate ā te wā tonu e kī ana ngā hua o tō whakamātautau kāore koe e pāngia ana . Me tatari kia pau te 20 meneti i muri i te whāngaia ōu ki te kano ārai mate kia kite ai ngā kaimahi hauora kāore e pērā rawa ana te kino o te pāngia ōu e te pāwera. Ko te kōrero nui katoa ka puta mō ngā tauhohenga, ko te mamae o te wāhi i werohia ai, ko te ānini o te māhunga, ko te rongo rānei i te ngenge, i te ruha rānei. Tērā pea ka rangona hoki te mamae o ngā uaua, te māuiui noa iho nei, te hūwiniwini, te kirikā, te mamae o ngā ponapona me te whakapai ruaki. He tohu tēnei e whaihua ana te kano ārai mate. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Ko aua mate rā ka kitea nuitia ana, ka māmā noa iho i te nuinga o te wā, ka mutu kāore e roa ana te mate, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka pā pea ētahi mate āpiti ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. He wā ōna ka puta ētahi mate pāwera kino nei, engari me uaua ka kitea. Kua whakangungua ā mātou kaiwhāngai i te tangata ki te kano ārai mate kia whakahaerehia ēnei āhuatanga. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te maremare hou e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, whakaritea hoki kia whakamātautauria tō tinana mō KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kāore koe i te mōhio ki te āhua o ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waeahia te Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ka āta kī atu ai ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. www.health.govt.nz/covid-vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Misinformation and scams Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Alternate formats Translations Te reo Māori عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese Te reo Māori عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms --- Section Separator --- He mate korona hou te KOWHEORI-19 ka pā pea ki ō pūkahukahu me ō arahau. He maha ngā momo mate korona e puta ai ngā māuiuitanga pēnei i te maremare noa iho nei. maremare e hou ana, e kino kē ake ana rānei kirikā kāore e iti iho ana i te tohurau e 38 ( 38°C ) huatare o te manawa mātihetihe me te ihu hūpē korenga o te ihu e rongo ana i te kakara. Ina pāngia koe e ēnei tohumate, ehara pea i te mea kua āta pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Tērā pea kua pāngia kētia koe e tētahi mate e hōrapa ake ana, pēnei i te maremare, i te rewharewha rānei. Ko te huatare o te manawa tētahi tohu pea o te pūkahu kakā, ā, me mātua tirotiro e te tākuta. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Tērā pea kua pāngia ētahi tāngata e ngā tohumate kāore e pērā rawa ana te hōrapa, pēnei i ēnei noa iho nei, i te: kirikā tikotiko māhunga ānini uaua mamae whakapai ruaki me te ruaki rangirua me te hōhā. Kāore anō mātou kia mōhio ki te roa o te wā ka hipa i mua i te kitenga o ngā tohumate mai i te pānga o te tangata. E ai ki te Kāhui Hauora o te Ao, kei te 2 – 10 rā tōna roa. Ka rere te KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kōpata i tētahi tangata ki tētahi atu. Ka pāngia e te tangata mā ō rātou karu, mā ō rātou ihu, mā ō rātou waha hoki. Ka maremare ana rānei, ka matihe ana rānei, ka kōrero ana rānei tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, ka rere atu pea i a ia ngā kōpata kei roto rā te huaketo. He rahi rawa ēnei kōpata kia roa tonu te rere i te takiwā, nō reira ka tau ki runga i ngā mata huri noa. --- Section Separator --- He mate korona hou te KOWHEORI-19 ka pā pea ki ō pūkahukahu me ō arahau. He maha ngā momo mate korona e puta ai ngā māuiuitanga pēnei i te maremare noa iho nei. maremare e hou ana, e kino kē ake ana rānei kirikā kāore e iti iho ana i te tohurau e 38 ( 38°C ) huatare o te manawa mātihetihe me te ihu hūpē korenga o te ihu e rongo ana i te kakara. Ina pāngia koe e ēnei tohumate, ehara pea i te mea kua āta pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Tērā pea kua pāngia kētia koe e tētahi mate e hōrapa ake ana, pēnei i te maremare, i te rewharewha rānei. Ko te huatare o te manawa tētahi tohu pea o te pūkahu kakā, ā, me mātua tirotiro e te tākuta. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Tērā pea kua pāngia ētahi tāngata e ngā tohumate kāore e pērā rawa ana te hōrapa, pēnei i ēnei noa iho nei, i te: kirikā tikotiko māhunga ānini uaua mamae whakapai ruaki me te ruaki rangirua me te hōhā. Kāore anō mātou kia mōhio ki te roa o te wā ka hipa i mua i te kitenga o ngā tohumate mai i te pānga o te tangata. E ai ki te Kāhui Hauora o te Ao, kei te 2 – 10 rā tōna roa. Ka rere te KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kōpata i tētahi tangata ki tētahi atu. Ka pāngia e te tangata mā ō rātou karu, mā ō rātou ihu, mā ō rātou waha hoki. Ka maremare ana rānei, ka matihe ana rānei, ka kōrero ana rānei tētahi kua pāngia e te mate, ka rere atu pea i a ia ngā kōpata kei roto rā te huaketo. He rahi rawa ēnei kōpata kia roa tonu te rere i te takiwā, nō reira ka tau ki runga i ngā mata huri noa. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks --- Section Separator --- Ko tā te mau uwhi mata he āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, mā te pērā hoki koe me ētahi atu e haumaru ai. Ka āwhina te uwhi mata i te aukatinga o te rere o ngā kōpata ka kōrero ana, ka kata ana, ka maremare ana, ka matihe ana rānei tētahi. Ka whai wāhi atu hoki ki tēnei te tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, engari e pēnei ana ia kei te pai tōna ora, kāore rānei ngā tohumate e āta kitea ana. Ehara i te mea me mau te nuinga o ngā tāngata i ngā ārai ā-hauora, ka mutu e pai ana kia mau rātou i ētahi atu momo uwhi mata. Ka kōrerotia te tangata me mātua whai i te uwhi mata, i te ārai ā-hauora rānei, e tōna kaituku mahi. Mehemea kāore ō uwhi mata, māu rānei tētahi e hanga, e hoko rānei. Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Ko tā te mau uwhi mata he āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, mā te pērā hoki koe me ētahi atu e haumaru ai. Ka āwhina te uwhi mata i te aukatinga o te rere o ngā kōpata ka kōrero ana, ka kata ana, ka maremare ana, ka matihe ana rānei tētahi. Ka whai wāhi atu hoki ki tēnei te tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, engari e pēnei ana ia kei te pai tōna ora, kāore rānei ngā tohumate e āta kitea ana. Ehara i te mea me mau te nuinga o ngā tāngata i ngā ārai ā-hauora, ka mutu e pai ana kia mau rātou i ētahi atu momo uwhi mata. Ka kōrerotia te tangata me mātua whai i te uwhi mata, i te ārai ā-hauora rānei, e tōna kaituku mahi. Mehemea kāore ō uwhi mata, māu rānei tētahi e hanga, e hoko rānei. Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters --- Section Separator --- He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: ahu mai i tētahi e huna nei tōna ingoa ake kī mai he pārongo kei a ia nō roto i ngā pokapū kāwanatanga, engari kāore e tautuhia te puna kī mai e whāngai pārongo ana ia kua hunaia i te marea, kāore rānei ngā āpiha e pīrangi nei kia mōhiotia e koe kī mai i te nuinga o te wā, ko te ‘kōrero houtupu’ e kino ake ana i te pārongo e whaimana ana. I tētahi wā pēnei: kia mataara koe ki ngā pārongo ka arohia e koe tirohia te kounga o te pārongo i mua i tō tuku ki ētahi atu. Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) --- Section Separator --- He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: ahu mai i tētahi e huna nei tōna ingoa ake kī mai he pārongo kei a ia nō roto i ngā pokapū kāwanatanga, engari kāore e tautuhia te puna kī mai e whāngai pārongo ana ia kua hunaia i te marea, kāore rānei ngā āpiha e pīrangi nei kia mōhiotia e koe kī mai i te nuinga o te wā, ko te ‘kōrero houtupu’ e kino ake ana i te pārongo e whaimana ana. I tētahi wā pēnei: kia mataara koe ki ngā pārongo ka arohia e koe tirohia te kounga o te pārongo i mua i tō tuku ki ētahi atu. Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- He nui pea ngā māharahara me ngā pātai ka toko ake mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate korona. Ka waea atu te kaimahi hauora ki te kōrerorero i ngā take mōu, tae atu ki tōu whānau. Kei konei rātou ki te tautoko me te awhi anō. Ka kōrerohia e rātou ko wai mā te hunga i pāpāngia e koe i ngā rā tata kua mahue ake nei. Ka kōrerohia te whakaneke i a koe – me tōu whānau, mēnā ko te hiahia – ki tētahi puni whakamohoao (external link) e noho āhuru ai koe, hei tāmi hoki i te autaia mate. Ka noho koutou ki te puni kotahi, engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, ākene ka rerekē tō rūma ki ērā o te whānau e noho ora ana. Mēnā kē ko te hiahia a te whānau he noho ki te kāinga ki te noho rāhui, he pai tonu tēnā. Ko te matū ko te noho āhuru a te katoa. He koreutu ngā ratonga whakamohoao, tae atu ki ngā ō kai, ki ngā ō timotimo, te Waiwhai, te horoi kākahu me ngā paramanawa. Ki te māuiui koe, mā te kapa hauora koe e manaaki. Me rapu, me whakapā e ngā kaimahi hauora nga tāngata katoa i pāpāngia e koe, nā reira, ka waea ana rātou ki a koe, kua uia koe ki ōu takahanga katoa i ngā rangi tata nei. Ka whakamahia ēnei pārongo ki te tautohu i te tangata, i te wāhi rānei i pāngia ai koe e te mate korona, me te whakapāpā haere ki ngā tāngata kua pāngia e koe. Ki te tere kitea ōu hoapā, ko te painga atu tērā ki te pēhi i te autaia mate korona. Nuku atu i te tahi haora te roa o te uiui, engari ka taea tētahi wāhanga i runga waea hei whakapoto i te wā ki te māuiui koe. Ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi kaiwhakamārama reo hei whakamāori i ō kōrero. Ka meatia koe kia kamakama te neke ki te puni whakamohoao, e āhuru ai tō noho. Ka āhei hoki te whānau ki te noho tahi ki te puni whakamohoao. Heoi ngā mea māuiui, me noho ki rūmā kē hei wawao i te whānau kāore i te māuiui. Mā tōu whānau anō te whakatau ki te whakamohoao ki te kāinga rānei. Ka kōrero tō kaimahi hauora ki a koe me te tautoko atu i ngā whakaritenga katoa e tae pai ai koe ki te puni. Mēnā he kararehe āu, ka whai wā tonu koe ki te whiriwhiri i ngā manaakitanga mōna. Ki te hia haere koe ki te hōhipera, mā ngā kaimahi o reira e āta mahi kia mahi taratahi e tatū ai ngā manaakitanga hauora mōu. Kāore koe e mate ki te utu i ngā utu hauora e pā ana ki te mate korona. Ka āta mātakihia e ngā kaimahi tō hauora me tō toiora i a koe i te puni whakamohoao. He tino whai ture ngā tikanga akuaku me te noho haumaru. Ka whakamōhio atu te kapa hauora i a koe inā ka mōhio pū rātou kua maunu te mate i a koe. Mēnā e āhua māuiui ana koe, engari kāore he take o te haere ki te hōhipera, 10 rangi te roa me noho whakamohoao koe mai i te wā i tīmata ai te mate. Me wātea koe i ngā māuiui katoa mō te 72 haora i mua i te tukutanga ōu ki te kāinga. Ko ēra e tino māuiui ana, ā, kei rō hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i te tukutanga atu ki te kāinga. Kei ia kēhi āna āhuatanga ake. --- Section Separator --- He nui pea ngā māharahara me ngā pātai ka toko ake mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate korona. Ka waea atu te kaimahi hauora ki te kōrerorero i ngā take mōu, tae atu ki tōu whānau. Kei konei rātou ki te tautoko me te awhi anō. Ka kōrerohia e rātou ko wai mā te hunga i pāpāngia e koe i ngā rā tata kua mahue ake nei. Ka kōrerohia te whakaneke i a koe – me tōu whānau, mēnā ko te hiahia – ki tētahi puni whakamohoao (external link) e noho āhuru ai koe, hei tāmi hoki i te autaia mate. Ka noho koutou ki te puni kotahi, engari mēnā e māuiui ana koe, ākene ka rerekē tō rūma ki ērā o te whānau e noho ora ana. Mēnā kē ko te hiahia a te whānau he noho ki te kāinga ki te noho rāhui, he pai tonu tēnā. Ko te matū ko te noho āhuru a te katoa. He koreutu ngā ratonga whakamohoao, tae atu ki ngā ō kai, ki ngā ō timotimo, te Waiwhai, te horoi kākahu me ngā paramanawa. Ki te māuiui koe, mā te kapa hauora koe e manaaki. Me rapu, me whakapā e ngā kaimahi hauora nga tāngata katoa i pāpāngia e koe, nā reira, ka waea ana rātou ki a koe, kua uia koe ki ōu takahanga katoa i ngā rangi tata nei. Ka whakamahia ēnei pārongo ki te tautohu i te tangata, i te wāhi rānei i pāngia ai koe e te mate korona, me te whakapāpā haere ki ngā tāngata kua pāngia e koe. Ki te tere kitea ōu hoapā, ko te painga atu tērā ki te pēhi i te autaia mate korona. Nuku atu i te tahi haora te roa o te uiui, engari ka taea tētahi wāhanga i runga waea hei whakapoto i te wā ki te māuiui koe. Ka taea anō e koe te tono tētahi kaiwhakamārama reo hei whakamāori i ō kōrero. Ka meatia koe kia kamakama te neke ki te puni whakamohoao, e āhuru ai tō noho. Ka āhei hoki te whānau ki te noho tahi ki te puni whakamohoao. Heoi ngā mea māuiui, me noho ki rūmā kē hei wawao i te whānau kāore i te māuiui. Mā tōu whānau anō te whakatau ki te whakamohoao ki te kāinga rānei. Ka kōrero tō kaimahi hauora ki a koe me te tautoko atu i ngā whakaritenga katoa e tae pai ai koe ki te puni. Mēnā he kararehe āu, ka whai wā tonu koe ki te whiriwhiri i ngā manaakitanga mōna. Ki te hia haere koe ki te hōhipera, mā ngā kaimahi o reira e āta mahi kia mahi taratahi e tatū ai ngā manaakitanga hauora mōu. Kāore koe e mate ki te utu i ngā utu hauora e pā ana ki te mate korona. Ka āta mātakihia e ngā kaimahi tō hauora me tō toiora i a koe i te puni whakamohoao. He tino whai ture ngā tikanga akuaku me te noho haumaru. Ka whakamōhio atu te kapa hauora i a koe inā ka mōhio pū rātou kua maunu te mate i a koe. Mēnā e āhua māuiui ana koe, engari kāore he take o te haere ki te hōhipera, 10 rangi te roa me noho whakamohoao koe mai i te wā i tīmata ai te mate. Me wātea koe i ngā māuiui katoa mō te 72 haora i mua i te tukutanga ōu ki te kāinga. Ko ēra e tino māuiui ana, ā, kei rō hōhipera, me roa ake te wā i mua i te tukutanga atu ki te kāinga. Kei ia kēhi āna āhuatanga ake. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Kei waho tonu rā a KOWHEORI-19. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa me mātua whai: Kia rite tonu te horoi i ngā ringa ki te hopi ka whakamaroke ai, kia whakamahia rānei te patuero ā-ringa. Kia mare, kia matihe rānei ki tō tuke. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei, kia noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, kaua e haere ki te kura, kaua hoki e haere ki te mahi. Kia mau he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe me te hunga e torona rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. He tohutohu mō te haere kia whakamātauria He tohutohu mō te huaketo me ōna tohumate I runga ki nga waka tūmatanui, ai ka ū nga arai mata Mā te ū tonu ki ngā tikanga pai o te uwhi mata e āwhina kia haumaru tonu koe me ētahi atu, ka mutu mā te pērā hoki e kaha kē atu ai te haumarutia ōu i ngā wā e iti ana rānei, e kore ana rānei te tū tīrara a ngā tāngata, hei tauira, i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā hokomaha hoki. He tohutohu mō te uwhi mata Kāore he herenga i runga i ngā huihuinga. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ēnei ngā tangihanga, ngā mārena, ngā huihuinga ā-hāhi me ngā huihuinga ā-hapori, ngā tākaro me ngā mahi a te rēhia. I te Pae Mataara 1, kua herea a KOWHEORI-19 engari ka whai hua tonu te ū kia tū tīrara i te hunga kāore e mōhiotia ana e koe ka puta ana koe ki hea rānei. Mā te pērā e tautāwhi te rerenga o KOWHEORI-19 mehemea ka rere anō te mate i waenga i te hapori. E āhei ana te rere noa o ngā whakahaere a ngā pakihi me ngā wāhi mahi. Me mātua whakaatu tonu rātou i te tohu QR o te NZ COVID Tracer , ā, me mātua whai hoki i pūnaha kē hei whakatewhatewha pāngaā ki ia papa. Me whakaatu tonu ngā waka tūmatanui i ngā tohu QR mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. E āhei ana kia tuwhera noa ngā kura, ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga me ngā kura tuatoru. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. He wā ōna ka āta whakaputaina he pūrongo hei whāngai rānei i te tangata ki te kōrero teka, hei tāware rānei i a rātou. E taupatupatu ana tērā ki a tātou i tēnei wā me mātua mahi ngātahi tātou hei turaki i te huaketo. He tohutohu e mau ai ngā pūrongo e tika ana Kāore anō a KOWHEORI-19 kia herea i tāwāhi. Kei te mau tonu ngā whakaritenga i ō tātou tawhā hei tautāwhi i te tūpono ka rere mai a KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi. Me mātua haere te hunga e tau mai ana ki Aotearoa ki ngā wāhi whakataratahi, atu i ngā wā kua kore e mate ki te pērā (ahakoa pēhea, me noho taratahi tonu). Ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā wāhi whakataratahi, kei ngā wāhi taratahi, kei ngā tūranga mahi hoki e nui ake nei te tūpono ka pāngia e te mate, he rite tonu te whakamātauria mō KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- Kei waho tonu rā a KOWHEORI-19. Ko ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa me mātua whai: Kia rite tonu te horoi i ngā ringa ki te hopi ka whakamaroke ai, kia whakamahia rānei te patuero ā-ringa. Kia mare, kia matihe rānei ki tō tuke. Mēnā e pāngia ana koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei, kia noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, kaua e haere ki te kura, kaua hoki e haere ki te mahi. Kia mau he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe me te hunga e torona rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. He tohutohu mō te haere kia whakamātauria He tohutohu mō te huaketo me ōna tohumate I runga ki nga waka tūmatanui, ai ka ū nga arai mata Mā te ū tonu ki ngā tikanga pai o te uwhi mata e āwhina kia haumaru tonu koe me ētahi atu, ka mutu mā te pērā hoki e kaha kē atu ai te haumarutia ōu i ngā wā e iti ana rānei, e kore ana rānei te tū tīrara a ngā tāngata, hei tauira, i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā hokomaha hoki. He tohutohu mō te uwhi mata Kāore he herenga i runga i ngā huihuinga. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ēnei ngā tangihanga, ngā mārena, ngā huihuinga ā-hāhi me ngā huihuinga ā-hapori, ngā tākaro me ngā mahi a te rēhia. I te Pae Mataara 1, kua herea a KOWHEORI-19 engari ka whai hua tonu te ū kia tū tīrara i te hunga kāore e mōhiotia ana e koe ka puta ana koe ki hea rānei. Mā te pērā e tautāwhi te rerenga o KOWHEORI-19 mehemea ka rere anō te mate i waenga i te hapori. E āhei ana te rere noa o ngā whakahaere a ngā pakihi me ngā wāhi mahi. Me mātua whakaatu tonu rātou i te tohu QR o te NZ COVID Tracer , ā, me mātua whai hoki i pūnaha kē hei whakatewhatewha pāngaā ki ia papa. Me whakaatu tonu ngā waka tūmatanui i ngā tohu QR mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. E āhei ana kia tuwhera noa ngā kura, ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga me ngā kura tuatoru. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. He wā ōna ka āta whakaputaina he pūrongo hei whāngai rānei i te tangata ki te kōrero teka, hei tāware rānei i a rātou. E taupatupatu ana tērā ki a tātou i tēnei wā me mātua mahi ngātahi tātou hei turaki i te huaketo. He tohutohu e mau ai ngā pūrongo e tika ana Kāore anō a KOWHEORI-19 kia herea i tāwāhi. Kei te mau tonu ngā whakaritenga i ō tātou tawhā hei tautāwhi i te tūpono ka rere mai a KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi. Me mātua haere te hunga e tau mai ana ki Aotearoa ki ngā wāhi whakataratahi, atu i ngā wā kua kore e mate ki te pērā (ahakoa pēhea, me noho taratahi tonu). Ko ngā kaimahi kei ngā wāhi whakataratahi, kei ngā wāhi taratahi, kei ngā tūranga mahi hoki e nui ake nei te tūpono ka pāngia e te mate, he rite tonu te whakamātauria mō KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Rua mita te tawhiti i ērā atu nō waho i te kāinga, kia kotahi mita hoki i ērā atu i ngā wāhi mahi. Mau uwhi mata i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā rerenga hoki, i ngā wā hoki e uaua nei te tū tīrara, pēnei i ngā wā kei te hokomaha, kei ngā toa rānei. Rite tonu te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Maumahara, ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare me te rewharewha, me noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere rānei ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Puritia he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe, mō te hunga hoki ka torona e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. Kua herea kia kaua e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i ngā hui pēnei i ngā huinga karakia, i te hākinakina, i te taiopenga pāpori hoki. Kua whakaaetia te tokomaha atu ki te 100 tāngata i ngā tangihanga mehemea ka ea i te kaiwhakahaere ngā herenga. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga E āhei ana kia tuwhera ki ngā kaimahi me ngā kirihoko ngā wāhi pakihi e whakatutuki ana i ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ka whai wāhi ki ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui, ko: te whakaatu i tētahi pānui whakaahua kei reira te tohu QR o te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ko te whai i pūnaha whakatewhatewha pānga kē; ā, te ū ki ngā whakaritenga akuaku pēnei i te horoi ringa, i te auau hoki o te horoi mata, ā te whai i ngā aratohu e pā ana ki te tū tīrara. E āhei ana kia rere ngā ratonga ka tukuna ki ngā wāhi tonu o te kirihoko — hei tauira, ki tōna kāinga, me ngā ratonga pā tata e whakatutuki nei i ngā whakaritenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ki te kore e tutuki i te wāhi mahi ēnei whakaritenga, kua kore e āhei kia rere ana mahi. E whakatenatenahia ana ngā pakihi katoa kia whai i huarahi mahi kē mēnā ka taea, kia kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā tūraru me ngā huarahi hei whakatau i ērā. Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi ērā atu kawenga katoa mō te hauora me te haumaru, me whai hoki kia haumaru, kia ora tonu hoki ngā kaimahi, ā, me eke hoki rātou ki ngā paeraro e tika ana mō te tuku mahi. E tuwhera ana ngā Whare Ako Kōhungahunga, ngā whare kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā whare o ngā kura tuatoru ki ngā pakeketanga katoa. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. Me noho ngā tamariki me ngā taiohi ki te kāinga mēnā: kua māuiui kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 e noho taratahi ana e tāria ana ngā hua o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. Mēnā e ora ana koe, e pai ana tō hāereere. Heoi, me ū ki ngā tikanga e haumaru ai te haere. Me mau ārai i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā wā rānei e uaua ana te tū tīrara. Puritia he kōrero mō ō nekehanga. E pai ana tō kuhu ki ō mahi me ngā mahi ā-rēhia he rite tonu te mahia mēnā rā ka haumaru te mahia. Heoi mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. I a koe e whakapakari tinana ana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, me whai kia rua mita tō tawhiti i ngā tāngata kāore i te mōhiotia e koe. E āhei ana tō mahi i ngā mahi pēnei i te: hīkoi, i te eke paihikara me te aru kararehe i ngā whenua rāhui e tūmatanui ana kauhoe i tētahi puna kaukau e tūmatanui ana, engari arā anō ōna herenga haere ki te whare whakapakari tinana, eke poti me ngā tākaro i te wai ki runga waka whai mīhini. Me kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ngā tākaro i te hapori. Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te 100 tāngata ngā kaiwawao, ngā āpiha me kaimahi kē atu e tuku ratonga ana ki te tākaro. Kāore e herea ngā huihuinga mō ngā tākaro e whai kaitākaro ukiuki ana, e whai kaitākaro harangotengote ana rānei. E pēnei ana nā te mea e kīia ana ngā kaitākaro he kaimahi i te wāhi mahi. E kīia ana he huihuinga ngā kaimātakitaki, me te aha kua herea kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ia rōpū. E āhei ana kia tini tonu ngā wāhi kua tautuhia i te papa tākaro mā te whai: kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i te rōpū kia wehe tētahi rōpū i tētahi mā te ū tonu rānei kia 2 mita te tū tīrara i waho, mā te whakatū tauārai rānei Me whai kia kaua rānei ngā rōpū e kōmitimiti, e whai wāhi rānei ki te wāhi kotahi i te wā kotahi. Hei tauira, e āhei ana kia tākarohia te whutupōro mēnā kāore e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i te papa tākaro i te wā kotahi. Mēnā he pae mātakitaki kei ngā taha e rua o te papa tākaro, e āhei ana kia hui te tokomaha atu ki te 100 ki ia pae mātakitaki mehemea e wehe ana rātou i ērā kei tērā atu pae mātakitaki, i ngā kaitākaro me ngā kaiwawao hoki kei te papa tākaro. Ko ngā kaiwhakahaere me te tangata e whakahaere ana i te wāhi e noho haepapa ana ki te kohikohi i ngā pārongo mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He aratohu nā Ihi Aotearoa (external link) Kia kaua rawa te huihuinga pāpori e tokomaha ake i te 100 ki tētahi wāhi kua tautuhia i te wā kotahi. E whai wāhi ana ki tēnei: te manaaki manuhiri i tō kāinga ngā kaupapa ā-whānau ngā mārena ngā huinga karakia ngā ngohe a ngā karapu me ngā rōpū hākinakina o te hapori ngā hui tūmataiti pēnei i te huritau, i te pō tāriana rānei. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te paerunga o te 100 tāngata ngā kaimahi e tuku ratonga ana ki te huihuinga pāpori. Me mā tonu ngā mata, horoia ō ringa, ā, i ngā wā e taea ana, me haumaru te tū tīrara. Mēnā kāore e taea te ū kia tawhiti ā-tinana nei koe i te hunga kāore i te mōhiotia e koe, whakaarotia te mau uwhi mata. E ai ki te ture, me mātua takoto i te kaiwhakahaere o te hui ngā ingoa o te hunga ka tae ake e taea ai te whakatewhatewha pānga mehemea me pērā. Ehara i te mea me pērā mehemea e mōhio ana te katoa ki te katoa, heoi anō he pai tonu te whakaaro kia pērā. Mehemea kua rīhingia e koe tētahi wāhi hei huihuinga noa iho mō te tāngata, e pūmau tonu ana ngā ture e pā ana ki te huihuinga. --- Section Separator --- Rua mita te tawhiti i ērā atu nō waho i te kāinga, kia kotahi mita hoki i ērā atu i ngā wāhi mahi. Mau uwhi mata i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā rerenga hoki, i ngā wā hoki e uaua nei te tū tīrara, pēnei i ngā wā kei te hokomaha, kei ngā toa rānei. Rite tonu te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Maumahara, ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare me te rewharewha, me noho ki te kāinga, me waea ki tō tākuta, ki tō kaituku ratonga hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki Healthline rānei, ka pātai ai mēnā e tika ana kia whakamātauria koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere rānei ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Puritia he kōrero mō ngā wāhi e haere rā koe, mō te hunga hoki ka torona e koe. Whakamahia rānei te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tētahi puka-iti rānei e pā ana ki te whakatewhatewha pānga mō KOWHEORI-19, ngā tuhinga ā-ringa rānei. Kua herea kia kaua e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i ngā hui pēnei i ngā huinga karakia, i te hākinakina, i te taiopenga pāpori hoki. Kua whakaaetia te tokomaha atu ki te 100 tāngata i ngā tangihanga mehemea ka ea i te kaiwhakahaere ngā herenga. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga E āhei ana kia tuwhera ki ngā kaimahi me ngā kirihoko ngā wāhi pakihi e whakatutuki ana i ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ka whai wāhi ki ngā herenga o te hauora tūmatanui, ko: te whakaatu i tētahi pānui whakaahua kei reira te tohu QR o te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ko te whai i pūnaha whakatewhatewha pānga kē; ā, te ū ki ngā whakaritenga akuaku pēnei i te horoi ringa, i te auau hoki o te horoi mata, ā te whai i ngā aratohu e pā ana ki te tū tīrara. E āhei ana kia rere ngā ratonga ka tukuna ki ngā wāhi tonu o te kirihoko — hei tauira, ki tōna kāinga, me ngā ratonga pā tata e whakatutuki nei i ngā whakaritenga o te hauora tūmatanui. Ki te kore e tutuki i te wāhi mahi ēnei whakaritenga, kua kore e āhei kia rere ana mahi. E whakatenatenahia ana ngā pakihi katoa kia whai i huarahi mahi kē mēnā ka taea, kia kōrero ki ngā kaimahi ki te tautuhi i ngā tūraru me ngā huarahi hei whakatau i ērā. Me tutuki hoki i ngā pakihi ērā atu kawenga katoa mō te hauora me te haumaru, me whai hoki kia haumaru, kia ora tonu hoki ngā kaimahi, ā, me eke hoki rātou ki ngā paeraro e tika ana mō te tuku mahi. E tuwhera ana ngā Whare Ako Kōhungahunga, ngā whare kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā whare o ngā kura tuatoru ki ngā pakeketanga katoa. Ka haumaru te noho a te tamariki ki te kura. Me noho ngā tamariki me ngā taiohi ki te kāinga mēnā: kua māuiui kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 e noho taratahi ana e tāria ana ngā hua o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. Mēnā e ora ana koe, e pai ana tō hāereere. Heoi, me ū ki ngā tikanga e haumaru ai te haere. Me mau ārai i ngā waka tūmatanui, i ngā wā rānei e uaua ana te tū tīrara. Puritia he kōrero mō ō nekehanga. E pai ana tō kuhu ki ō mahi me ngā mahi ā-rēhia he rite tonu te mahia mēnā rā ka haumaru te mahia. Heoi mēnā kua māuiui koe, e noho ki te kāinga. I a koe e whakapakari tinana ana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, me whai kia rua mita tō tawhiti i ngā tāngata kāore i te mōhiotia e koe. E āhei ana tō mahi i ngā mahi pēnei i te: hīkoi, i te eke paihikara me te aru kararehe i ngā whenua rāhui e tūmatanui ana kauhoe i tētahi puna kaukau e tūmatanui ana, engari arā anō ōna herenga haere ki te whare whakapakari tinana, eke poti me ngā tākaro i te wai ki runga waka whai mīhini. Me kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ngā tākaro i te hapori. Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te 100 tāngata ngā kaiwawao, ngā āpiha me kaimahi kē atu e tuku ratonga ana ki te tākaro. Kāore e herea ngā huihuinga mō ngā tākaro e whai kaitākaro ukiuki ana, e whai kaitākaro harangotengote ana rānei. E pēnei ana nā te mea e kīia ana ngā kaitākaro he kaimahi i te wāhi mahi. E kīia ana he huihuinga ngā kaimātakitaki, me te aha kua herea kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i ia rōpū. E āhei ana kia tini tonu ngā wāhi kua tautuhia i te papa tākaro mā te whai: kia kaua e neke atu i te 100 te tokomaha i te rōpū kia wehe tētahi rōpū i tētahi mā te ū tonu rānei kia 2 mita te tū tīrara i waho, mā te whakatū tauārai rānei Me whai kia kaua rānei ngā rōpū e kōmitimiti, e whai wāhi rānei ki te wāhi kotahi i te wā kotahi. Hei tauira, e āhei ana kia tākarohia te whutupōro mēnā kāore e tokomaha atu i te 100 tāngata i te papa tākaro i te wā kotahi. Mēnā he pae mātakitaki kei ngā taha e rua o te papa tākaro, e āhei ana kia hui te tokomaha atu ki te 100 ki ia pae mātakitaki mehemea e wehe ana rātou i ērā kei tērā atu pae mātakitaki, i ngā kaitākaro me ngā kaiwawao hoki kei te papa tākaro. Ko ngā kaiwhakahaere me te tangata e whakahaere ana i te wāhi e noho haepapa ana ki te kohikohi i ngā pārongo mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He aratohu nā Ihi Aotearoa (external link) Kia kaua rawa te huihuinga pāpori e tokomaha ake i te 100 ki tētahi wāhi kua tautuhia i te wā kotahi. E whai wāhi ana ki tēnei: te manaaki manuhiri i tō kāinga ngā kaupapa ā-whānau ngā mārena ngā huinga karakia ngā ngohe a ngā karapu me ngā rōpū hākinakina o te hapori ngā hui tūmataiti pēnei i te huritau, i te pō tāriana rānei. Ngā herenga me ngā tohutohu mō te tangihanga Kāore e whai wāhi atu ki te paerunga o te 100 tāngata ngā kaimahi e tuku ratonga ana ki te huihuinga pāpori. Me mā tonu ngā mata, horoia ō ringa, ā, i ngā wā e taea ana, me haumaru te tū tīrara. Mēnā kāore e taea te ū kia tawhiti ā-tinana nei koe i te hunga kāore i te mōhiotia e koe, whakaarotia te mau uwhi mata. E ai ki te ture, me mātua takoto i te kaiwhakahaere o te hui ngā ingoa o te hunga ka tae ake e taea ai te whakatewhatewha pānga mehemea me pērā. Ehara i te mea me pērā mehemea e mōhio ana te katoa ki te katoa, heoi anō he pai tonu te whakaaro kia pērā. Mehemea kua rīhingia e koe tētahi wāhi hei huihuinga noa iho mō te tāngata, e pūmau tonu ana ngā ture e pā ana ki te huihuinga. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Me noho koe ki te kāinga kei hora te mate. Me mahi mai i te kāinga, māna kāore e taea. Me ako mai i te kāinga ngā tamariki ina taea. Mehemea kei te māuiui koe, me noho ki te kāinga. Kaua e haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei. Kaua e haere ki te kite i ētahi atu tāngata. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Mehemea kua kīia ai koe kia noho taratahi, i raro i te ture me pērā koe inamata. Mehemea kua whakamātauria ki te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, i raro i te ture me noho taratahi koe ki tō kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō koe i ō whakatau. Te huaketo me ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 Te whakamātautanga Ko tā ngā tāngata katoa i Tāmakimakaurau: Me tū tīrara 2 mita te tawhiti i ētahi atu i waho atu o te kāinga, me te kotahi mita i ngā wāhi mahi. Me mau uhia kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, ngā rerenga, ina he uaua te tū tīrara rānei, pēnā ki te hokomaha me ngā toa. Kia auau te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei kia whakamātauria ai koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Me whakataki ō haerenga, me ngā tāngata ka kitea e koe i tō haerenga. Whakamahia te taupānga Whakataki KOWHEORI Aotearoa, he pukapuka whakataki Kowheori-19, he tuhinga taipitopito rānei. Whakakāngia te whakataki ā-Hono Iarere E whakaaetia ana ngā huihuinga o te 10 tāngata iti ake rānei, heoi anō, mō ngā mārena, ngā nehunga me ngā tangihanga anake. Ā-ture nei me tū tīrara, me whai hoki i ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Ā-ture nei me mau uhi kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, i runga i ngā rerenga ā-motu hoki. E tino whakatenatena ana kia kaha te mau uhi kanohi i ngā tūāhuatanga kāore e taea te tū tīrara, pēnā ki ngā toa. Ngā uhi kanohi He mea nui kia whai koe i ngā āhuatanga māmā o te tikanga akuaku, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te maremare, te matihe rānei ki te whatianga o tō ringa, me te hori o ngā papa katoa. E tino whakatenatenahia ana kia whakatakina ō haerenga, me te hunga ka kite ai koe. He mea āwhina i te whakataki tere i te tangata ina hiahiatia. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, mehemea kāore koe i te mahi, i te kura rānei, ā-ture nei me hoki koe ki tō mirumiru kāinga noho ai. E āhei ana koe ki te whakawhānui ake i tēnei: kia pai ai tō hono atu ki te whānau takapiri kia herea mai he kaitiaki, rānei ki te tautoko i ngā tāngata e noho taratahi ana. He mea nui kia tiakina tō mirumiru. Me tāuke tō mirumiru, me whakaae anake kia uru mai te tangata mehemea ka pai tāu, me tā rātou noho haumaru, noho hauora anō hoki. Ki te māuiui haere tētahi i roto i tō mirumiru, ā-ture nei me noho taratahi rātou i ētahi atu i te mirumiru.  Kaua e pōhiri, e whakaae rānei ki ngā manuhiri, pērā ki ngā hoa, te whānau whānui, whānau rānei ki te kuhu mai ki tō kāinga. E āhei ana to hāereere i tō ake rohe, hei tauira, mō te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei, ki te hokohoko, ki te whakapakari tinana rānei. E āhei ana te haere tonu o ngā waka tūmatanui i runga i ngā tino herenga hauora, haumaru hoki. Ki te Pae Mataara 3 kua tino herea ngā haerenga i waenga i ngā rohe. Kua tino herea te haerenga atu me te haerenga mai i ngā rohe Pae Mataara 3. Hei aukati i te hora o te mate tēnei mahi. Me tono whakaaetanga koe i tua atu kia pai ai tō haerenga i tētahi rohe Pae Mataara ki tētahi rohe Pae Mataara. I runga i te ture me kati rawa ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Tae atu tēnei ki ngā whare pukapuka, ngā whare taonga, ngā whare pikitia, ngā kōti kai, ngā whare whakapakari tinana, ngā puna kaukau, ngā papatākaro me ngā mākete. Ehara tēnei i te wā ki te ako i ngā ngohe hou, ki te hura rānei i a koe, i tō mirumiru rānei ki te mōrea. E āhei ana ngā ngohe ā-rēhia, iti te mōrea, ki tō ake rohe. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, kua whakaritea he herenga ki te whakahaumaru i ngā kaimahi, ki te whakaiti hoki i te tāutuutu i waenga i ngā kaimahi me ngā kiritaki, hei ara aukati i te hora o te KOWHEORI-19.  Ko te tino tohutohu kia mahi mai i te kāinga ngā kaimahi ina taea. Mehemea kei te raru koe mō te taha moni, arā pea he āwhina māu. He tautoko mō te taha ki te kai, ki te moni, ki te noho, ki te noho haumaru, noho ora anō hoki --- Section Separator --- Me noho koe ki te kāinga kei hora te mate. Me mahi mai i te kāinga, māna kāore e taea. Me ako mai i te kāinga ngā tamariki ina taea. Mehemea kei te māuiui koe, me noho ki te kāinga. Kaua e haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei. Kaua e haere ki te kite i ētahi atu tāngata. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha, o te KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 ki te whiwhi tohutohu kia whakamātauria ai koe. Mehemea kua kīia ai koe kia noho taratahi, i raro i te ture me pērā koe inamata. Mehemea kua whakamātauria ki te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, i raro i te ture me noho taratahi koe ki tō kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō koe i ō whakatau. Te huaketo me ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19 Te whakamātautanga Ko tā ngā tāngata katoa i Tāmakimakaurau: Me tū tīrara 2 mita te tawhiti i ētahi atu i waho atu o te kāinga, me te kotahi mita i ngā wāhi mahi. Me mau uhia kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, ngā rerenga, ina he uaua te tū tīrara rānei, pēnā ki te hokomaha me ngā toa. Kia auau te horoi me te whakamaroke i ngā ringaringa. Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te rewharewha rānei me waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei kia whakamātauria ai koe. Kaua e hāereere, e haere ki te kura, ki te mahi rānei. Me whakataki ō haerenga, me ngā tāngata ka kitea e koe i tō haerenga. Whakamahia te taupānga Whakataki KOWHEORI Aotearoa, he pukapuka whakataki Kowheori-19, he tuhinga taipitopito rānei. Whakakāngia te whakataki ā-Hono Iarere E whakaaetia ana ngā huihuinga o te 10 tāngata iti ake rānei, heoi anō, mō ngā mārena, ngā nehunga me ngā tangihanga anake. Ā-ture nei me tū tīrara, me whai hoki i ngā tohutohu hauora tūmatanui. Ā-ture nei me mau uhi kanohi i runga i ngā waka tūmatanui, i runga i ngā rerenga ā-motu hoki. E tino whakatenatena ana kia kaha te mau uhi kanohi i ngā tūāhuatanga kāore e taea te tū tīrara, pēnā ki ngā toa. Ngā uhi kanohi He mea nui kia whai koe i ngā āhuatanga māmā o te tikanga akuaku, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te maremare, te matihe rānei ki te whatianga o tō ringa, me te hori o ngā papa katoa. E tino whakatenatenahia ana kia whakatakina ō haerenga, me te hunga ka kite ai koe. He mea āwhina i te whakataki tere i te tangata ina hiahiatia. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, mehemea kāore koe i te mahi, i te kura rānei, ā-ture nei me hoki koe ki tō mirumiru kāinga noho ai. E āhei ana koe ki te whakawhānui ake i tēnei: kia pai ai tō hono atu ki te whānau takapiri kia herea mai he kaitiaki, rānei ki te tautoko i ngā tāngata e noho taratahi ana. He mea nui kia tiakina tō mirumiru. Me tāuke tō mirumiru, me whakaae anake kia uru mai te tangata mehemea ka pai tāu, me tā rātou noho haumaru, noho hauora anō hoki. Ki te māuiui haere tētahi i roto i tō mirumiru, ā-ture nei me noho taratahi rātou i ētahi atu i te mirumiru.  Kaua e pōhiri, e whakaae rānei ki ngā manuhiri, pērā ki ngā hoa, te whānau whānui, whānau rānei ki te kuhu mai ki tō kāinga. E āhei ana to hāereere i tō ake rohe, hei tauira, mō te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura rānei, ki te hokohoko, ki te whakapakari tinana rānei. E āhei ana te haere tonu o ngā waka tūmatanui i runga i ngā tino herenga hauora, haumaru hoki. Ki te Pae Mataara 3 kua tino herea ngā haerenga i waenga i ngā rohe. Kua tino herea te haerenga atu me te haerenga mai i ngā rohe Pae Mataara 3. Hei aukati i te hora o te mate tēnei mahi. Me tono whakaaetanga koe i tua atu kia pai ai tō haerenga i tētahi rohe Pae Mataara ki tētahi rohe Pae Mataara. I runga i te ture me kati rawa ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Tae atu tēnei ki ngā whare pukapuka, ngā whare taonga, ngā whare pikitia, ngā kōti kai, ngā whare whakapakari tinana, ngā puna kaukau, ngā papatākaro me ngā mākete. Ehara tēnei i te wā ki te ako i ngā ngohe hou, ki te hura rānei i a koe, i tō mirumiru rānei ki te mōrea. E āhei ana ngā ngohe ā-rēhia, iti te mōrea, ki tō ake rohe. Ki te Pae Mataara 3, kua whakaritea he herenga ki te whakahaumaru i ngā kaimahi, ki te whakaiti hoki i te tāutuutu i waenga i ngā kaimahi me ngā kiritaki, hei ara aukati i te hora o te KOWHEORI-19.  Ko te tino tohutohu kia mahi mai i te kāinga ngā kaimahi ina taea. Mehemea kei te raru koe mō te taha moni, arā pea he āwhina māu. He tautoko mō te taha ki te kai, ki te moni, ki te noho, ki te noho haumaru, noho ora anō hoki --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 --- Section Separator --- Mō te Pae Mataara 4 me: Noho koe ki te kāinga, atu i te koringa mōu ake me whai. Me tapu tō poihau. He mea nui te tiaki i ngā tāngata i tō poihau. Me 2 mita te tawhiti i ngā tāngata o poihau kē atu i a koe e wehe atu ana i te kāinga ki te koringa mōu ake. Me haere ki te papa tata ki a koe ki te kori, ki te hokomaha tata hoki ki te hoko, kaua ko te mea pai rawa atu ki a koe. Katia ngā kaipakihi katoa e mahi kanohi ki te kanohi ana. Ka puare tonu ētahi kaipakihi engari ka tino rāhuitia. Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau hoki tētahi ina uaua kē te tū tīrara. Me auau te horoi, te whakamaroke hoki i ō ringaringa. He mea nui kia auau te whai i ngā tikanga akuaku noa, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te mare, te tihe rānei ki tō tuke, te whakapai hoki i ngā papa. Whāia ngā wāhi i tae atu ai koe mā te taupānga Haurapa Mate Korona Aotearoa, mā te puka haurapa Mate Korona, mā te tuhituhi noa rānei. He āwhinatanga tēnei e wawe ai te haurapa pānga mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Haere kia whakamātautauria koe mēnā kua pāngia koe e te maremare, e te rewharewha, e ngā tohu Mate Korona rānei. Hei whai tohutohu mō te whakamātaunga, waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 . Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te huaketo me ngā tohu o te Mate Korona Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te Whakamātautau Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te haurapa Hono Iarere Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei. Pāwhiria i konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi Kua katia katoatia ngā Akomanga Kōhungahunga, ngā puna kōhungahunga, ngā kura, me ngā kura wānanga. Mā te tino whai take e taea ai te haere ki rohe kē. Me kati ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Ko ēnei ko ngā whare pukapuka, ko ngā whare pupuri taonga, ko ngā whare pikitia, ko ngā papa kai, ko ngā whare hākinakina, ko ngā puna kaukau, ko ngā papa tākaro, ko ngā mākete hoki. Kāore e whakaaetia kia tū ngā hui tūmatanui. Ko ēnei ko ngā tākaro, ko ngā mārena, ko ngā uhunga, tangihanga rānei, te aha noa. Me kaua koe e whakapā ā-tinana atu ki tētahi atu i tō ake poihau. E taea ai te korikori, te tākaro māmā hoki ki roto i tō rohe tata, hei tauira, e āhei ana ki te hīkoi, ki te oma rānei tata ki tō kāinga. Ehara tēnei i te wā kia whāia e koe he koringa hou. Me mahi i mamao ngā kaipakihi katoa atu i ērā kua tohua hei ratonga whai tikanga. Me whai ritenga e haumaru ai ngā kaimahi, me whakatiki i ngā whakapānga ki ngā kiritaki, me whakatiki hoki i te horanga o te Mate Korona. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi tuku ratonga pērā i ngā ratonga hauora, ngā ratonga whaipainga, me ngā kaikawe utanga. Me whai tonu ngā kaitukumahi i ēnei tū mahi i ngā tikanga hauora, haumaru anō. Ki te tūpono ka ohotata (pērā i te ahi, te rū whenua, te tai āniwhaniwha, te aha noa) whāia ngā ritenga ohotata. Ka whai mana kē atu ēnei ritenga ohotata i ērā o te Mate Korona, heoi me tū tīrara tonu i ngā wā e taea ai. Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero hei ārahi i a koe i ngā wā ohotata Mēnā e raru ana koe i te whai moni, i te kai, kua raru ā-hinengaro, ā-tinana rānei, tērā he āwhinatanga hei whai māu. Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i te tangata takitahi Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i ngā kaipakihi --- Section Separator --- Mō te Pae Mataara 4 me: Noho koe ki te kāinga, atu i te koringa mōu ake me whai. Me tapu tō poihau. He mea nui te tiaki i ngā tāngata i tō poihau. Me 2 mita te tawhiti i ngā tāngata o poihau kē atu i a koe e wehe atu ana i te kāinga ki te koringa mōu ake. Me haere ki te papa tata ki a koe ki te kori, ki te hokomaha tata hoki ki te hoko, kaua ko te mea pai rawa atu ki a koe. Katia ngā kaipakihi katoa e mahi kanohi ki te kanohi ana. Ka puare tonu ētahi kaipakihi engari ka tino rāhuitia. Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau hoki tētahi ina uaua kē te tū tīrara. Me auau te horoi, te whakamaroke hoki i ō ringaringa. He mea nui kia auau te whai i ngā tikanga akuaku noa, tae atu ki te horoi ringaringa, te mare, te tihe rānei ki tō tuke, te whakapai hoki i ngā papa. Whāia ngā wāhi i tae atu ai koe mā te taupānga Haurapa Mate Korona Aotearoa, mā te puka haurapa Mate Korona, mā te tuhituhi noa rānei. He āwhinatanga tēnei e wawe ai te haurapa pānga mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Haere kia whakamātautauria koe mēnā kua pāngia koe e te maremare, e te rewharewha, e ngā tohu Mate Korona rānei. Hei whai tohutohu mō te whakamātaunga, waea atu ki tō tākuta, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 611 116 . Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te huaketo me ngā tohu o te Mate Korona Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te Whakamātautau Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero mō te haurapa Hono Iarere Me mau Maruhā, Ārai Kanohi hoki mā runga waka kawe pāhihi tūmatanui. E whakahaua ana kia mau maruhā, ārai kanohi hoki mēnā he uaua kē te tū tīrara, pērā i ngā hokomaha, i ngā toa rānei. Pāwhiria i konei mō ngā kōrero mō ngā maruhā me ngā ārai kanohi Kua katia katoatia ngā Akomanga Kōhungahunga, ngā puna kōhungahunga, ngā kura, me ngā kura wānanga. Mā te tino whai take e taea ai te haere ki rohe kē. Me kati ngā wāhi tūmatanui. Ko ēnei ko ngā whare pukapuka, ko ngā whare pupuri taonga, ko ngā whare pikitia, ko ngā papa kai, ko ngā whare hākinakina, ko ngā puna kaukau, ko ngā papa tākaro, ko ngā mākete hoki. Kāore e whakaaetia kia tū ngā hui tūmatanui. Ko ēnei ko ngā tākaro, ko ngā mārena, ko ngā uhunga, tangihanga rānei, te aha noa. Me kaua koe e whakapā ā-tinana atu ki tētahi atu i tō ake poihau. E taea ai te korikori, te tākaro māmā hoki ki roto i tō rohe tata, hei tauira, e āhei ana ki te hīkoi, ki te oma rānei tata ki tō kāinga. Ehara tēnei i te wā kia whāia e koe he koringa hou. Me mahi i mamao ngā kaipakihi katoa atu i ērā kua tohua hei ratonga whai tikanga. Me whai ritenga e haumaru ai ngā kaimahi, me whakatiki i ngā whakapānga ki ngā kiritaki, me whakatiki hoki i te horanga o te Mate Korona. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi tuku ratonga pērā i ngā ratonga hauora, ngā ratonga whaipainga, me ngā kaikawe utanga. Me whai tonu ngā kaitukumahi i ēnei tū mahi i ngā tikanga hauora, haumaru anō. Ki te tūpono ka ohotata (pērā i te ahi, te rū whenua, te tai āniwhaniwha, te aha noa) whāia ngā ritenga ohotata. Ka whai mana kē atu ēnei ritenga ohotata i ērā o te Mate Korona, heoi me tū tīrara tonu i ngā wā e taea ai. Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero hei ārahi i a koe i ngā wā ohotata Mēnā e raru ana koe i te whai moni, i te kai, kua raru ā-hinengaro, ā-tinana rānei, tērā he āwhinatanga hei whai māu. Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i te tangata takitahi Pāwhiria ki konei mō ngā kōrero āwhina i ngā kaipakihi --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan --- Section Separator --- Kua whai a Aotearoa i ngā pota 10 miriona o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech. E nui ana ērā e werohia ai ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate me whai e whakatōngia ai rātou ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19. He mahere tā te Kāwanatanga e utukore ai, e tōkeke ai hoki te wātea o te kano ārai mate ki a rātou. Ka whakamātāmuatia te hunga e nui ake ana te mōrearea i a KOWHEORI-19. E hiahia ana mātou kia whai wāhi ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki te ārai i a rātou anō, i ō rātou whānau me ō tātou hapori, mā te werohanga ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19. Ka tohaina haerehia ngā pota ki ngā rōpū e whā. Ko te whāinga, kia werohia ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki te kano ārai mate i mua i te mutunga o te tau 2021. Ko te hunga tuatahi ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate ko ō tātou kaimahi kei ngā ripa tauārai me te hunga e noho tahi ana ki a rātou. Ka whai wāhi ki tēnei rōpū ngā kaiwhakapaipai, ngā nēhi e whakahaere ana i ngā arowhai hauora i ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi, ngā kaiwhakahaumaru, ngā āpiha o te mana ārai, o te ripa tauārai anō hoki, ngā kaimahi hōtēra, ngā kaimahi pukumaire me ngā pirihimana e tika ana kia whakaurua ki ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi, ngā kaimahi waka rererangi, ngā mana taunga poti me ngā kaiwero i te kano ārai mate. Ka rere ngā werohanga o tēnei Rōpū ki te kano ārai mate hei a Pēpuere me Māehe o te tau 2021. Kia mutu te whakatōngia o ō tātou kaimahi kei ngā ripa tauārai me te hunga e noho tahi ana ki a rātou ki te kano ārai mate, kātahi mātou ka whakatōngia ki te kano ārai mate ko ngā kaimahi hauora kei ngā aroaro ākapa e nui ana te tūpono pāngia ki a KOWHEORI-19, e nui ana hoki/rānei te tūpono o te horanga o te mate rā mā ō rātou whakawhitinga me te tūroro. Kei te Rōpū 2 hoki ko ngā Māori me ngā tāngata o Te Moana nui a Kiwa e pakeke ake ana, e tiakina nei e ngā whānau (ko ērā hoki e noho tahi ana ki a rātou, me ō rātou kaitiaki). Hei wāhanga hoki mō tēnei Rōpū, ka werohia hoki ki te kano ārai mate ko ērā kei te takiwā hauora (DHB) o te tonga o Tāmaki kua 65+ ngā tau, ko ērā rānei e raru nei ō rātou pūnaha awhikiri, ko ērā rānei e hauā ana. Ka werohia te Rōpū 2 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Maehe ki a Mei, i te tau 2021. I te Rōpū 3, ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate, ko ngā tāngata kua 65+ ngā tau, ko ērā e raru nei ō rātou pūnaha awhikiri, ko ērā rānei e hauā ana, ko ērā pakeke hoki e tautiakina ana e te ture. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ngā āhuatanga e kīia ai kua raru te pūnaha awhikiri ko te manawa toto pūroto, ko te toto pōrutu, ko te roro ikura, ko te matehuka, ko ngā mate mau tonu ki te pukapuka, ko te mate tākihi me te mate pukupuku. Ka rere ngā werohanga o te Rōpū 3 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Mei o te 2021 ā haere ake. I te Rōpū 4, ka wātea te huarahi kia werohia ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 ko ērā atu tāngata katoa kua 16 tau te pakeke, kua pakeke ake rānei i tērā, kāore anō kia whakatōngia ki te kano ārai mate. Kāore anō kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te werohia o ngā tāngata e tamariki ake ana i te 16 tau te pakeke ki te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech. Ka rere ngā werohanga o te Rōpū 4 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Hūrae o te tau 2021 ā haere ake. Ahakoa mā te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 e ārai atu te wheori ā haere ake nei, me kaha tonu tātou katoa ki te whai wāhi ki te aukatinga o KOWHEORI-19 i ō tātou hapori. Me ū tonu tātou ki ngā tikanga matua e 4: te horoi ringaringa, te karapa i ngā tohu āurupare wawe (QR), te whakakā i te hono iarere (Bluetooth) me te noho i te kāinga ina pāngia e te māuiui. Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta i te wā o te werohia ou Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta mai i muri i te werohia ōu --- Section Separator --- Kua whai a Aotearoa i ngā pota 10 miriona o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech. E nui ana ērā e werohia ai ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate me whai e whakatōngia ai rātou ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19. He mahere tā te Kāwanatanga e utukore ai, e tōkeke ai hoki te wātea o te kano ārai mate ki a rātou. Ka whakamātāmuatia te hunga e nui ake ana te mōrearea i a KOWHEORI-19. E hiahia ana mātou kia whai wāhi ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki te ārai i a rātou anō, i ō rātou whānau me ō tātou hapori, mā te werohanga ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19. Ka tohaina haerehia ngā pota ki ngā rōpū e whā. Ko te whāinga, kia werohia ngā tāngata katoa i Aotearoa ki te kano ārai mate i mua i te mutunga o te tau 2021. Ko te hunga tuatahi ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate ko ō tātou kaimahi kei ngā ripa tauārai me te hunga e noho tahi ana ki a rātou. Ka whai wāhi ki tēnei rōpū ngā kaiwhakapaipai, ngā nēhi e whakahaere ana i ngā arowhai hauora i ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi, ngā kaiwhakahaumaru, ngā āpiha o te mana ārai, o te ripa tauārai anō hoki, ngā kaimahi hōtēra, ngā kaimahi pukumaire me ngā pirihimana e tika ana kia whakaurua ki ngā Wāhi Whakataratahi, ngā kaimahi waka rererangi, ngā mana taunga poti me ngā kaiwero i te kano ārai mate. Ka rere ngā werohanga o tēnei Rōpū ki te kano ārai mate hei a Pēpuere me Māehe o te tau 2021. Kia mutu te whakatōngia o ō tātou kaimahi kei ngā ripa tauārai me te hunga e noho tahi ana ki a rātou ki te kano ārai mate, kātahi mātou ka whakatōngia ki te kano ārai mate ko ngā kaimahi hauora kei ngā aroaro ākapa e nui ana te tūpono pāngia ki a KOWHEORI-19, e nui ana hoki/rānei te tūpono o te horanga o te mate rā mā ō rātou whakawhitinga me te tūroro. Kei te Rōpū 2 hoki ko ngā Māori me ngā tāngata o Te Moana nui a Kiwa e pakeke ake ana, e tiakina nei e ngā whānau (ko ērā hoki e noho tahi ana ki a rātou, me ō rātou kaitiaki). Hei wāhanga hoki mō tēnei Rōpū, ka werohia hoki ki te kano ārai mate ko ērā kei te takiwā hauora (DHB) o te tonga o Tāmaki kua 65+ ngā tau, ko ērā rānei e raru nei ō rātou pūnaha awhikiri, ko ērā rānei e hauā ana. Ka werohia te Rōpū 2 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Maehe ki a Mei, i te tau 2021. I te Rōpū 3, ka werohia ki te kano ārai mate, ko ngā tāngata kua 65+ ngā tau, ko ērā e raru nei ō rātou pūnaha awhikiri, ko ērā rānei e hauā ana, ko ērā pakeke hoki e tautiakina ana e te ture. Ka whai wāhi atu ki ngā āhuatanga e kīia ai kua raru te pūnaha awhikiri ko te manawa toto pūroto, ko te toto pōrutu, ko te roro ikura, ko te matehuka, ko ngā mate mau tonu ki te pukapuka, ko te mate tākihi me te mate pukupuku. Ka rere ngā werohanga o te Rōpū 3 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Mei o te 2021 ā haere ake. I te Rōpū 4, ka wātea te huarahi kia werohia ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 ko ērā atu tāngata katoa kua 16 tau te pakeke, kua pakeke ake rānei i tērā, kāore anō kia whakatōngia ki te kano ārai mate. Kāore anō kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te werohia o ngā tāngata e tamariki ake ana i te 16 tau te pakeke ki te kano ārai mate a Pfizer/BioNTech. Ka rere ngā werohanga o te Rōpū 4 ki te kano ārai mate atu i a Hūrae o te tau 2021 ā haere ake. Ahakoa mā te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 e ārai atu te wheori ā haere ake nei, me kaha tonu tātou katoa ki te whai wāhi ki te aukatinga o KOWHEORI-19 i ō tātou hapori. Me ū tonu tātou ki ngā tikanga matua e 4: te horoi ringaringa, te karapa i ngā tohu āurupare wawe (QR), te whakakā i te hono iarere (Bluetooth) me te noho i te kāinga ina pāngia e te māuiui. Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta i te wā o te werohia ou Pāwhirihia mai a konei e kitea ai he pārongo mō ngā āhuatanga i tōna tikanga ka puta mai i muri i te werohia ōu --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae --- Section Separator --- The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please don't share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please don't share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Ko te pare atu i te mate korona i Aotearoa, te mahi tiaki rawa i a tātou. Mai i te 11:59pm i te 25 o Kohitātea 2021, katoa ngā tāngata e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa, hāunga anō ērā o Ahitereiria, o Anatātika, o Rarotonga, o ngā Moutere o Maikoronihia, o Whīti, o Kiripati, o ngā Moutere Māhara, o Nauru, o Niu Karetōnia, o Niue, o Parau, o Hāmoa, o ngā Motu Horomona, o Tokerau, o Tonga, o Tuwaru, o Whenuatū, o Uwea me Whutuna, me mātua whakamātautau mō te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau, e 72 hāora i mua i te wehetanga, ka mutu ka whakaatu mai hoki i te tiwhikete taiwhanga pūtaiao, i tētahi atu momo taunakitanga tōtika rānei. E whakaaetia ana hoki te katoa o ngā whakamātau PCR , whakamātau LAMP me ngā whakamātau kita whakamate mō tēnei whakamātau tōmua. Me mahi atu ngā whakamātautau katoa e tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao. E whakaaetia ana hoki ngā tiwhikete tohuora kua tuhia ki reo kē. E whakawāteatia ana i te whakamātau tōmua ko ngā tamariki kāore anō kia rua tau (24 marama) te pakeke. E whakawāteatia ana i te whakamātau tōmua ko te tangata haere mai ki Aotearoa he tiwhikete tohuora tāna e tohu ana kua ora ake ia i te KOWHEORI-19, e kore hoki e pāngia tētahi atu ki taua mate e ia. Ko ngā tāngata haere kāore e taea te whakamātau nā tētahi take hauora, me mātua toro ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō wehetanga. Me mātua homai e te tākuta he tiwhikete tohuora e whakaatu ana he take hauora kē i kore ai koe e whakamātauria, ā, kāore hoki ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e rere ana koe ki whenua kē mā Aotearoa, ā, kāore koe e puta i te taiwhanga whakawhiti waka rererangi, e whakawāteatia ana koe i te whakamātau tōmua. E kaha ana te whakahau ki te hunga haere kia whakapā atu ki ō rātou kamupene rererangi kei tūpono he whakaritenga anō ā rātou mō ngā whakamātau tōmua. Me mōhio anō hoki ki ngā whakaritenga a ērā atu whenua e whakawhiti atu ai rātou. Mai i te 8 o Huitanguru, katoa ngā pāhihi ka tae mai ki Aotearoa (i tua atu i ērā nō ngā whenua i whakawāteatia), kāore he tohu whakaatu i te korenga o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā rānei he tiwhikete tohuora, tērā pea e whiua ki te whaina, piki atu ki te $1,000. Hei te taunga mai ki Aotearoa, ko ngā tāngata haere mai katoa: me noho ki tētahi puni whakamohoao, whaitua taratahi rānei mō te 14 rā me whakamātau mō te KOWHEORI-19 i te rā 0 (arā, i te rā tonu e tae atu ai ki te puni whakamohoao) me noho ki tōna ake rūma kia mōhiotia rā anō te whakatau a te whakamātautau me he tohumate korona i te taenga mai o te tangata, ka haere tōtika atu ki tētahi whaitua taratahi. He werohanga ihu PCR te momo whakamātautau nei. Ka 24-28 hāora kia hoki mai ngā whakataunga whakamātautau. Me he korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau, ka noho tonu te tangata ki te puni whakamohoao mō te roanga atu o ngā rā 14. Ka whakamātauria anō i te takiwā o te rā 3 me te rā 12 o tā rātou noho. Mō te katoa tonu o ngā tāngata, me korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 me whakaae hoki e tō mātou kāhui hauora he iti te tūpono kei te kawea haere te mate korona, kua pāngia rānei ki ētahi atu kātahi anō ka whakaaetia te wehe atu i te puni whakamohoao. Mehemea he mate korona te whakatau, ka tōmua ake te neke i te tangata ki te whaitua taratahi, tēnā i kore ai te whakamātautau i te rā 0. Hei tūwatawata anō te whakamātautau o te rā 0 hei ārai atu i a KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, tae atu ki ōna putanga kētanga hou kua ara ake i tāwāhi, me te tere ake o te horapa haere. Mō ngā tino kōrero o te wā e pā ana ki te mate korona, tēnā peka ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu kōrero e pā ana ki ngā puni whakamohoao, me ngā whaitua taratahi, haere ki tēnei: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te pare atu i te mate korona i Aotearoa, te mahi tiaki rawa i a tātou. Mai i te 11:59pm i te 25 o Kohitātea 2021, katoa ngā tāngata e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa, hāunga anō ērā o Ahitereiria, o Anatātika, o Rarotonga, o ngā Moutere o Maikoronihia, o Whīti, o Kiripati, o ngā Moutere Māhara, o Nauru, o Niu Karetōnia, o Niue, o Parau, o Hāmoa, o ngā Motu Horomona, o Tokerau, o Tonga, o Tuwaru, o Whenuatū, o Uwea me Whutuna, me mātua whakamātautau mō te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau, e 72 hāora i mua i te wehetanga, ka mutu ka whakaatu mai hoki i te tiwhikete taiwhanga pūtaiao, i tētahi atu momo taunakitanga tōtika rānei. E whakaaetia ana hoki te katoa o ngā whakamātau PCR , whakamātau LAMP me ngā whakamātau kita whakamate mō tēnei whakamātau tōmua. Me mahi atu ngā whakamātautau katoa e tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao. E whakaaetia ana hoki ngā tiwhikete tohuora kua tuhia ki reo kē. E whakawāteatia ana i te whakamātau tōmua ko ngā tamariki kāore anō kia rua tau (24 marama) te pakeke. E whakawāteatia ana i te whakamātau tōmua ko te tangata haere mai ki Aotearoa he tiwhikete tohuora tāna e tohu ana kua ora ake ia i te KOWHEORI-19, e kore hoki e pāngia tētahi atu ki taua mate e ia. Ko ngā tāngata haere kāore e taea te whakamātau nā tētahi take hauora, me mātua toro ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō wehetanga. Me mātua homai e te tākuta he tiwhikete tohuora e whakaatu ana he take hauora kē i kore ai koe e whakamātauria, ā, kāore hoki ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e rere ana koe ki whenua kē mā Aotearoa, ā, kāore koe e puta i te taiwhanga whakawhiti waka rererangi, e whakawāteatia ana koe i te whakamātau tōmua. E kaha ana te whakahau ki te hunga haere kia whakapā atu ki ō rātou kamupene rererangi kei tūpono he whakaritenga anō ā rātou mō ngā whakamātau tōmua. Me mōhio anō hoki ki ngā whakaritenga a ērā atu whenua e whakawhiti atu ai rātou. Mai i te 8 o Huitanguru, katoa ngā pāhihi ka tae mai ki Aotearoa (i tua atu i ērā nō ngā whenua i whakawāteatia), kāore he tohu whakaatu i te korenga o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā rānei he tiwhikete tohuora, tērā pea e whiua ki te whaina, piki atu ki te $1,000. Hei te taunga mai ki Aotearoa, ko ngā tāngata haere mai katoa: me noho ki tētahi puni whakamohoao, whaitua taratahi rānei mō te 14 rā me whakamātau mō te KOWHEORI-19 i te rā 0 (arā, i te rā tonu e tae atu ai ki te puni whakamohoao) me noho ki tōna ake rūma kia mōhiotia rā anō te whakatau a te whakamātautau me he tohumate korona i te taenga mai o te tangata, ka haere tōtika atu ki tētahi whaitua taratahi. He werohanga ihu PCR te momo whakamātautau nei. Ka 24-28 hāora kia hoki mai ngā whakataunga whakamātautau. Me he korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau, ka noho tonu te tangata ki te puni whakamohoao mō te roanga atu o ngā rā 14. Ka whakamātauria anō i te takiwā o te rā 3 me te rā 12 o tā rātou noho. Mō te katoa tonu o ngā tāngata, me korona-kore te whakatau a te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 me whakaae hoki e tō mātou kāhui hauora he iti te tūpono kei te kawea haere te mate korona, kua pāngia rānei ki ētahi atu kātahi anō ka whakaaetia te wehe atu i te puni whakamohoao. Mehemea he mate korona te whakatau, ka tōmua ake te neke i te tangata ki te whaitua taratahi, tēnā i kore ai te whakamātautau i te rā 0. Hei tūwatawata anō te whakamātautau o te rā 0 hei ārai atu i a KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, tae atu ki ōna putanga kētanga hou kua ara ake i tāwāhi, me te tere ake o te horapa haere. Mō ngā tino kōrero o te wā e pā ana ki te mate korona, tēnā peka ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu kōrero e pā ana ki ngā puni whakamohoao, me ngā whaitua taratahi, haere ki tēnei: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N --- Section Separator --- Kua āhei te Taratahi-Kore o tō hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria, me te kore e mate ki te Noho Whakataratahi. E Taratahi-Kore ai te rere, me kaua e iti iho i te 14 rā te roa o tō noho ki Aotearoa rānei, ki Ahitereiria rānei, ka mutu me eke ngā paearu whakauru. Tērā pea ka tere tonu te huringa o ēnei paearu i muri tata i te pānuitanga. E ū tonu ana ki ngā ture mō te manene - mehemea me whai kōkota i te nuinga o te wā e uru ai koe ki Ahitereiria rānei, ki Aotearoa rānei, me whai tonu e koe ināianei. Ka rerekē te āhua o te hāereere i tērā e taunga nei koe - ka kite koe i ngā kiringaio hauora e mahi ana i ngā mātai ā-hauora, ka mutu me mau koe i tētahi tākai mata i te waka rererangi. Me whakautu pātai hoki koe mō tōu hauora i te wehenga - mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te mate romahā me te rewharewha kāore e āhei tō hāereere. Me mātua oti i a koe tētahi whakapuakanga hāereere i mua i te paunga o te 72 hāora i mua i tō wehenga i Aotearoa ( www.covid19.homeaffairs.gov.au/australia-travel-declaration (external link) ). Me mātua mōhio hoki koe e whakaae ana te takiwā ā-mana motuhake, te takiwā ā-mana karauna rānei e haere nā koe ki ngā rerenga Taratahi-Kore i Aotearoa. Tirohia he pārongo atu anō mō te haere ki Ahitereiria (external link) He pārongo hāereere mō ia takiwā ā-mana motuhake/mana karauna: Australian Capital Territory (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Me mātua oti i a koe tētahi whakapuakanga ā-ipurangi mō te hāereere i mua i tō wehenga i Ahitereiria ( naumaira.covid19.govt.nz/ (external link) ). Ki te pakaru mai te mate ki Ahitereiria i a koe i reira, ka mate pea koe ki te noho whakataratahi i tō taenga ki Aotearoa. Me utu koe i tō noho ki reira. Tirohia he pārongo atu anō mō te haere ki Aotearoa Tirohia te āhua o te whakahaerehia o tētahi kua pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 i Ahitereiria --- Section Separator --- Kua āhei te Taratahi-Kore o tō hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria, me te kore e mate ki te Noho Whakataratahi. E Taratahi-Kore ai te rere, me kaua e iti iho i te 14 rā te roa o tō noho ki Aotearoa rānei, ki Ahitereiria rānei, ka mutu me eke ngā paearu whakauru. Tērā pea ka tere tonu te huringa o ēnei paearu i muri tata i te pānuitanga. E ū tonu ana ki ngā ture mō te manene - mehemea me whai kōkota i te nuinga o te wā e uru ai koe ki Ahitereiria rānei, ki Aotearoa rānei, me whai tonu e koe ināianei. Ka rerekē te āhua o te hāereere i tērā e taunga nei koe - ka kite koe i ngā kiringaio hauora e mahi ana i ngā mātai ā-hauora, ka mutu me mau koe i tētahi tākai mata i te waka rererangi. Me whakautu pātai hoki koe mō tōu hauora i te wehenga - mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te mate romahā me te rewharewha kāore e āhei tō hāereere. Me mātua oti i a koe tētahi whakapuakanga hāereere i mua i te paunga o te 72 hāora i mua i tō wehenga i Aotearoa ( www.covid19.homeaffairs.gov.au/australia-travel-declaration (external link) ). Me mātua mōhio hoki koe e whakaae ana te takiwā ā-mana motuhake, te takiwā ā-mana karauna rānei e haere nā koe ki ngā rerenga Taratahi-Kore i Aotearoa. Tirohia he pārongo atu anō mō te haere ki Ahitereiria (external link) He pārongo hāereere mō ia takiwā ā-mana motuhake/mana karauna: Australian Capital Territory (external link) New South Wales (external link) Northern Territory (external link) Queensland (external link) South Australia (external link) Tasmania (external link) Victoria (external link) Western Australia (external link) Me mātua oti i a koe tētahi whakapuakanga ā-ipurangi mō te hāereere i mua i tō wehenga i Ahitereiria ( naumaira.covid19.govt.nz/ (external link) ). Ki te pakaru mai te mate ki Ahitereiria i a koe i reira, ka mate pea koe ki te noho whakataratahi i tō taenga ki Aotearoa. Me utu koe i tō noho ki reira. Tirohia he pārongo atu anō mō te haere ki Aotearoa Tirohia te āhua o te whakahaerehia o tētahi kua pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 i Ahitereiria --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Kua whakaritea e Te Hiranga Tangata he Tauwaea Whakaara ( 0800 559 009 ) hei manaaki i ngā hapori kua raru nei. Tērā ētahi āwhinatanga kaipakihi a Te Hiranga Tangata hei torotoro. Mēnā kua kīia kia noho whakamohoao ō kaimahi, ā, kāore hoki e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ka taea e koe te tono pūtea hei utu tonu i a rātou. He pārongo mō tētahi Pūtea Āwhina hou hei āwhina i ngā kaipakihi kua heke nei ā rātou moni whiwhi i runga i te huringa o ngā Pae Mataara Mate Korona. Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto – E wātea ana te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto Mate Korona ki ngā kaipakihi, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, hei āwhina ki te utu i ō rātou kaimahi kāore nei e taea te mahi i te kāinga i a rātou e tatari ana kia whakahokia mai ō rātou whakamātaunga Mate Korona. Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā – E whai wāhi ana ki te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā ko ngā kaimahi e rite ana, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, kāore e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ā, kua pāngia nei e te momo māuiui, hei tauira, kua pāngia e te Mate Korona, kua kīia ai rānei he ‘hoa tata’, ā, me noho whakamohoao ki te kāinga mō ngā rā 14. Pūtea Whakaara – He mea āwhina te Pūtea Whakaara a Te Tari Tāke i ngā kaipakihi kua raru nei i te nui haere o ngā putanga Pae Mataara. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Āwhina, te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto, me te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Tari Tāke (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Whakaara. He āwhinatanga kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata, whakapā atu ki te pokapū i 0800 559 009 me MyMSD E puare ana ngā pokapū o Te Hiranga Tangata i ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2, e katia ana i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4. Ka whakahaeretia ā-waeahia ngā whakaritenga i raro i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4, i ngā wā e rite ana. Ka rite tonu ngā whakaritenga mō ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2. Ka utua tonutia ngā utu e rite ana e Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka whakamāramatia ngā utu e wātea ana i te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) . Kei te wātea hoki ēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. --- Section Separator --- Kua whakaritea e Te Hiranga Tangata he Tauwaea Whakaara ( 0800 559 009 ) hei manaaki i ngā hapori kua raru nei. Tērā ētahi āwhinatanga kaipakihi a Te Hiranga Tangata hei torotoro. Mēnā kua kīia kia noho whakamohoao ō kaimahi, ā, kāore hoki e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ka taea e koe te tono pūtea hei utu tonu i a rātou. He pārongo mō tētahi Pūtea Āwhina hou hei āwhina i ngā kaipakihi kua heke nei ā rātou moni whiwhi i runga i te huringa o ngā Pae Mataara Mate Korona. Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto – E wātea ana te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto Mate Korona ki ngā kaipakihi, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, hei āwhina ki te utu i ō rātou kaimahi kāore nei e taea te mahi i te kāinga i a rātou e tatari ana kia whakahokia mai ō rātou whakamātaunga Mate Korona. Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā – E whai wāhi ana ki te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā ko ngā kaimahi e rite ana, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, kāore e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ā, kua pāngia nei e te momo māuiui, hei tauira, kua pāngia e te Mate Korona, kua kīia ai rānei he ‘hoa tata’, ā, me noho whakamohoao ki te kāinga mō ngā rā 14. Pūtea Whakaara – He mea āwhina te Pūtea Whakaara a Te Tari Tāke i ngā kaipakihi kua raru nei i te nui haere o ngā putanga Pae Mataara. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Āwhina, te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto, me te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Tari Tāke (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Whakaara. He āwhinatanga kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata, whakapā atu ki te pokapū i 0800 559 009 me MyMSD E puare ana ngā pokapū o Te Hiranga Tangata i ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2, e katia ana i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4. Ka whakahaeretia ā-waeahia ngā whakaritenga i raro i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4, i ngā wā e rite ana. Ka rite tonu ngā whakaritenga mō ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2. Ka utua tonutia ngā utu e rite ana e Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka whakamāramatia ngā utu e wātea ana i te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) . Kei te wātea hoki ēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals --- Section Separator --- Ki te kore e taea e koe te wehe i tō kāinga ki te tiki kai, me whai kia: Tīkina he kai e tō whānau, e ō hoa rānei. Tonoa he kai i te ipurangi i tō hokomaha mā tā rātou ratonga mā te hunga me mātua whai āwhina. Tērā tonu pea ka whai āwhina koe i Te Hiranga Tangata. Ehara i te mea me kiritaki kē koe nā Te Hiranga Tangata. Waeahia te 0800 559 009 Go to MyMSD (external link) Ki te totoa tō hiahia ki te whai kai i ngā hāora e 24-48 e whai ake nei, e pai ana hoki tō whakapā atu ki tētahi putunga kai o te rohe pātata. Rapua ngā putunga kai me ētahi atu ratonga tuku kai puta noa i Aotearoa (external link) He āwhinatanga kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata, whakapā atu ki te pokapū i 0800 559 009 me MyMSD. E puare ana ngā pokapū o Te Hiranga Tangata i ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2, e katia ana i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4. Ka whakahaeretia ā-waeahia ngā whakaritenga i raro i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4, i ngā wā e rite ana. Ka whakahaeretia ngā whakaritenga i raro i ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2 i ngā pokapū o Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka utua tonutia ngā utu e rite ana e Te Hiranga Tangata. Mēnā kua tonoa koe kia noho whakamohoao me te kore e āhei ki te mahi i te kāinga, me kōrero ki tō kaitukumahi. Tērā pea ka taea e ia te tono kia whiwhi moni hei utu tonu i a koe. Ka whakamāramatia ngā utu e wātea ana i te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) . Kei te wātea hoki ēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi i te kāinga i a koe e tatari ana ki tō whakamātaunga Mate Korona, ka taea e tō kaitukumahi te tono kia utua kotahitia mai te $350 hei utu tonu i a koe. Kei te wātea hoki tēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi i te kāinga i a koe e noho whakamohoao ana ka taea e tō kaitukumahi te tono ki te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Ka kotahi putunga mai te utu ki ngā kaitukumahi, ā, ka utua mō te rua wiki mō ia kaimahi e whai wāhi mai ana, $585.80 mō ia kaimahi e mahi ana mō ngā haora 20 neke atu i ia wiki, ka $350 mō ia kaimahi e mahi ana mō ngā haora i raro i te 20 i ia wiki. Mēnā kua raru tō wāhi mahi i te huringa Pae Mataara, ka taea e tō kaitukumahi te tono ki te pūtea āwhina me te pūtea whakaara hei utu i a koe, kia whai mahi tonu koe. Mēnā kua poroa tō tūranga mahi, kua whakahekea rānei ō hāora mahi, he āwhina kei Te Hiranga Tangata mō te taha ki ngā utu totoa pēnei i ō te: kai utu noho whare, hei tauira, ko te reti, ko te mōkete ranei, ko te reti rūma, ko te whawhati tata o te whakarite whare, ko te hūnuku whare tapitapi, i ō te whakahou rānei i ngā taputapu ā-whare whawhati tata o te whai rongoā ā-niho whawhati tata o e whai rongoā ā-hauora whakakī kurawai. Te tautoko ā-pūtea, ngā paearu whai wāhi me te ara hei tono, i te pae tukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Whakapā atu rānei ki Te Hiranga Tangata i; Te 0800 559 009 Ngā kaumātua e pakeke ake ana i te 65 tau: 0800 552 002 , ko tēnei tau rānei +64 4 978 1180 Ngā tauira: 0800 88 99 00 www.studylink.govt.nz (external link) E āhei ana tā te hunga turi, tā te hunga kāore e rongo tika ana, tā te hunga kāore hoki e mārama ana te kōrero whakamahi i te Deaf Link i runga i te kore utu Waea whakaahuahia te 0800 621 621 Pātuhihia te 029 286 7170 MSD_Deaf_Services@msd.govt.nz WorkSafe 0800 030 040 , ko tēnei rānei +64 4 897 7699 www.worksafe.govt.nz (external link) www.employment.govt.nz (external link) waeahia rānei te 0800 20 90 20 , tēnei rānei +64 9 969 2950 Te hunga reti 0800 646 483 www.hud.govt.nz (external link) īmērahia rānei te info@hud.govt.nz Ngā ratonga whare taupua 0508 754 163 https://temporaryaccommodation.mbie.govt.nz (external link) Waeahia te tau whawhati tata o te 111 mēnā e inamata ana te mōrearea ōu, o tētahi atu rānei  i te tūkino mai a tētahi, i te hiahia rānei o tētahi ki te tūkino i a ia anō. E hono ai koe ki ngā ratonga tautoko ā-pāpori i tō rohe pātata, waeahia te tau whai āwhina, 211 nei, o Ngā Ratonga ā-Whānau, te 0800 211 211 , toro atu rānei ki www.familyservices.govt.nz/directory/ (external link) He kupu ārahi, he tautoko, he whare haumaru hoki kei Te Punanga Wāhine mēnā kei te pā mai ngā mahi tūkino a tētahi ki tōu ao. 0800 733 843 He ratonga utu-kore te Tau-āwhina o Te Tūkino Kaumātua e wātea ana ki ngā kaumātua mēnā kei te tūkinotia rātou, kei te tūkinotia rānei tētahi atu e mōhiotia ana e rātou. 0800 32 668 65 E whai tautoko ai koe mō te mānukanuka, mō te ahotea, mō te oranga rānei o te hinengaro, waeahia, pātuhihia rānei te 1737 ki te kōrero ki tētahi kua whakangungua ki te āwhina, kāore nei he utu, i ngā hāora e 24 i ia rā, i ngā rā e 7 o te wiki. E pai ana hoki tō whakapā atu ki te Tau-āwhina mō te Hinapōuri, ki te 0800 111 757 ki te Tau-āwhina hoki mō te Waipiro me te Whakapōauau, ki te 0800 787 797 . --- Section Separator --- Ki te kore e taea e koe te wehe i tō kāinga ki te tiki kai, me whai kia: Tīkina he kai e tō whānau, e ō hoa rānei. Tonoa he kai i te ipurangi i tō hokomaha mā tā rātou ratonga mā te hunga me mātua whai āwhina. Tērā tonu pea ka whai āwhina koe i Te Hiranga Tangata. Ehara i te mea me kiritaki kē koe nā Te Hiranga Tangata. Waeahia te 0800 559 009 Go to MyMSD (external link) Ki te totoa tō hiahia ki te whai kai i ngā hāora e 24-48 e whai ake nei, e pai ana hoki tō whakapā atu ki tētahi putunga kai o te rohe pātata. Rapua ngā putunga kai me ētahi atu ratonga tuku kai puta noa i Aotearoa (external link) He āwhinatanga kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata, whakapā atu ki te pokapū i 0800 559 009 me MyMSD. E puare ana ngā pokapū o Te Hiranga Tangata i ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2, e katia ana i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4. Ka whakahaeretia ā-waeahia ngā whakaritenga i raro i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4, i ngā wā e rite ana. Ka whakahaeretia ngā whakaritenga i raro i ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2 i ngā pokapū o Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka utua tonutia ngā utu e rite ana e Te Hiranga Tangata. Mēnā kua tonoa koe kia noho whakamohoao me te kore e āhei ki te mahi i te kāinga, me kōrero ki tō kaitukumahi. Tērā pea ka taea e ia te tono kia whiwhi moni hei utu tonu i a koe. Ka whakamāramatia ngā utu e wātea ana i te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) . Kei te wātea hoki ēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi i te kāinga i a koe e tatari ana ki tō whakamātaunga Mate Korona, ka taea e tō kaitukumahi te tono kia utua kotahitia mai te $350 hei utu tonu i a koe. Kei te wātea hoki tēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi i te kāinga i a koe e noho whakamohoao ana ka taea e tō kaitukumahi te tono ki te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Ka kotahi putunga mai te utu ki ngā kaitukumahi, ā, ka utua mō te rua wiki mō ia kaimahi e whai wāhi mai ana, $585.80 mō ia kaimahi e mahi ana mō ngā haora 20 neke atu i ia wiki, ka $350 mō ia kaimahi e mahi ana mō ngā haora i raro i te 20 i ia wiki. Mēnā kua raru tō wāhi mahi i te huringa Pae Mataara, ka taea e tō kaitukumahi te tono ki te pūtea āwhina me te pūtea whakaara hei utu i a koe, kia whai mahi tonu koe. Mēnā kua poroa tō tūranga mahi, kua whakahekea rānei ō hāora mahi, he āwhina kei Te Hiranga Tangata mō te taha ki ngā utu totoa pēnei i ō te: kai utu noho whare, hei tauira, ko te reti, ko te mōkete ranei, ko te reti rūma, ko te whawhati tata o te whakarite whare, ko te hūnuku whare tapitapi, i ō te whakahou rānei i ngā taputapu ā-whare whawhati tata o te whai rongoā ā-niho whawhati tata o e whai rongoā ā-hauora whakakī kurawai. Te tautoko ā-pūtea, ngā paearu whai wāhi me te ara hei tono, i te pae tukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Whakapā atu rānei ki Te Hiranga Tangata i; Te 0800 559 009 Ngā kaumātua e pakeke ake ana i te 65 tau: 0800 552 002 , ko tēnei tau rānei +64 4 978 1180 Ngā tauira: 0800 88 99 00 www.studylink.govt.nz (external link) E āhei ana tā te hunga turi, tā te hunga kāore e rongo tika ana, tā te hunga kāore hoki e mārama ana te kōrero whakamahi i te Deaf Link i runga i te kore utu Waea whakaahuahia te 0800 621 621 Pātuhihia te 029 286 7170 MSD_Deaf_Services@msd.govt.nz WorkSafe 0800 030 040 , ko tēnei rānei +64 4 897 7699 www.worksafe.govt.nz (external link) www.employment.govt.nz (external link) waeahia rānei te 0800 20 90 20 , tēnei rānei +64 9 969 2950 Te hunga reti 0800 646 483 www.hud.govt.nz (external link) īmērahia rānei te info@hud.govt.nz Ngā ratonga whare taupua 0508 754 163 https://temporaryaccommodation.mbie.govt.nz (external link) Waeahia te tau whawhati tata o te 111 mēnā e inamata ana te mōrearea ōu, o tētahi atu rānei  i te tūkino mai a tētahi, i te hiahia rānei o tētahi ki te tūkino i a ia anō. E hono ai koe ki ngā ratonga tautoko ā-pāpori i tō rohe pātata, waeahia te tau whai āwhina, 211 nei, o Ngā Ratonga ā-Whānau, te 0800 211 211 , toro atu rānei ki www.familyservices.govt.nz/directory/ (external link) He kupu ārahi, he tautoko, he whare haumaru hoki kei Te Punanga Wāhine mēnā kei te pā mai ngā mahi tūkino a tētahi ki tōu ao. 0800 733 843 He ratonga utu-kore te Tau-āwhina o Te Tūkino Kaumātua e wātea ana ki ngā kaumātua mēnā kei te tūkinotia rātou, kei te tūkinotia rānei tētahi atu e mōhiotia ana e rātou. 0800 32 668 65 E whai tautoko ai koe mō te mānukanuka, mō te ahotea, mō te oranga rānei o te hinengaro, waeahia, pātuhihia rānei te 1737 ki te kōrero ki tētahi kua whakangungua ki te āwhina, kāore nei he utu, i ngā hāora e 24 i ia rā, i ngā rā e 7 o te wiki. E pai ana hoki tō whakapā atu ki te Tau-āwhina mō te Hinapōuri, ki te 0800 111 757 ki te Tau-āwhina hoki mō te Waipiro me te Whakapōauau, ki te 0800 787 797 . --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau | Testing --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: kua hoki mai koe i tāwāhi i nā tata nei kua pā atu koe ki tētahi kua hoki mai i tāwāhi i nā tata nei he whakapānga tata koe nō tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: kua hoki mai koe i tāwāhi i nā tata nei kua pā atu koe ki tētahi kua hoki mai i tāwāhi i nā tata nei he whakapānga tata koe nō tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N Te whakamātau tōmua i te hunga e haere mai ana ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand Te mahere a Aotearoa hei toha i te kano ārai mate | New Zealand's vaccine rollout plan He tirohanga whānui ki te kano ārai mate | Vaccine overview Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te noho i te pae 3 | Living at Level 3 Te noho i te pae 4 | Living at Level 4 Hei āwhina tangata | Support for individuals He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Tohu whakamana ki o marae | Posters for your marae Te Taratahi-Kore o te Hāereere i waenga i Aotearoa me Ahitereiria | Quarantine-Free Travel between N عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan 繁體中文 | Traditional Chinese Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Unstoppable summer toolkit --- Section Separator --- Everyone wants an endless summer. Those long glorious days that roll into weeks. No one wants it cut short. And to make sure it isn’t, we all need to do our bit. We need to show New Zealand that washing their hands, scanning QR codes, turning on Bluetooth tracing and staying home if they’re sick is the best way to unite and make our summer unstoppable. Warning: video contains flashing images. Please look away if you have a history of photosensitive epilepsy or suffer from migraines. Unstoppable summer: A COVID-19 public service announcement (Original) Unstoppable summer: A COVID-19 public service announcement (Short version) To help to make summer unstoppable, we have developed a music track featuring Dr Ashley Bloomfield. This video is available to use at events and festivals. If you would like the raw video files, please contact us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz Order collateral to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable. Order collateral to help make summer unstoppable (external link) If you cannot use this form, email us to order. Email Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz If you are running an event this summer it is important that it is as safe as possible for you and your event attendees. To help you play your part, we’ve created an event activation toolkit, as well as a checklist to ensure your event is as safe as possible. Event activation toolkit [PDF, 21 MB] Events checklist [PDF, 7.1 MB] Business checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 6.2 MB] Events checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 7.1 MB] You can add text or images relevant to events, people or places in your region. Make summer unstoppable A3 template — blue [PDF, 1.7 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 template — red [PDF, 1.4 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 839 KB] Make festivals unstoppable A3 template [PDF, 2.3 MB] [Business or event] for an unstoppable summer A3 template — yellow [PDF, 26 MB] Make business unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 37 MB] Make events unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 59 MB] Make festivals unstoppable A3 poster [PDF, 1.9 MB] Make BBQs unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 8.6 MB] Make beaches unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 3.6 MB] Make family time unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 9.9 MB] Make music unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 20 MB] Make pool days unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 8.5 MB] Make waves unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 6 MB] Make events unstoppable A3 poster [PDF, 117 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 poster — beach [PDF, 6.1 MB] Scan QR codes A3 poster — icon [PDF, 2.9 MB] Scan QR codes A3 poster — photo [PDF, 2.7 MB] Scan QR codes A1 poster — icon [PDF, 2.9 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A3 poster — icon [PDF, 3.3 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A3 poster — photo [PDF, 3.1 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A1 poster — icon [PDF, 3.3 MB] Stay home if you’re sick A3 poster — icon [PDF, 3.5 MB] Stay home if you're sick A3 poster — photo [PDF, 8.1 MB] Stay home if you’re sick A1 poster — icon [PDF, 3.5 MB] Wash your hands A3 poster — icon [PDF, 2.8 MB] Wash your hands A3 poster — photo [PDF, 7.2 MB] Wash your hands A1 poster — icon [PDF, 2.8 MB] This poster has space in the centre to add your event’s QR code, name and address details. Put your QR code here A3 poster [PDF, 880 KB] Put your QR code here A1 poster [PDF, 2.7 MB] These digital banners are 1600x500 pixels. Make summer unstoppable — blue [JPG, 346 KB] Make summer unstoppable — red [JPG, 349 KB] Make business unstoppable — blue [PNG, 181 KB] Make events unstoppable — blue [PNG, 175 KB] Make festivals unstoppable — blue [PNG, 194 KB] Scan QR codes [JPG, 301 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [JPG, 319 KB] Stay home if you’re sick [JPG, 271 KB] Wash your hands [JPG, 286 KB] These social media tiles are 1080x1080 pixels. Make summer unstoppable — blue [JPG, 449 KB] Make summer unstoppable — red [JPG, 453 KB] Make business unstoppable — blue [PNG, 223 KB] Make events unstoppable — blue [PNG, 216 KB] Make festivals unstoppable — blue [PNG, 244 KB] Scan QR codes [JPG, 426 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [JPG, 448 KB] Stay home if you’re sick [JPG, 349 KB] Wash your hands [JPG, 397 KB] Table talker with QR code [PDF, 32 MB] Table talker with no QR code [PDF, 32 MB] You can download our posters and add in your own text or images so they work for you. If you need something else to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable, contact us with your design request. Please include a high resolution image and the relevant specs. We cannot cater to every request but we’ll do our best to provide you with design files. Email your request to Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Everyone wants an endless summer. Those long glorious days that roll into weeks. No one wants it cut short. And to make sure it isn’t, we all need to do our bit. We need to show New Zealand that washing their hands, scanning QR codes, turning on Bluetooth tracing and staying home if they’re sick is the best way to unite and make our summer unstoppable. --- Section Separator --- Warning: video contains flashing images. Please look away if you have a history of photosensitive epilepsy or suffer from migraines. --- Section Separator --- Unstoppable summer: A COVID-19 public service announcement (Original) Unstoppable summer: A COVID-19 public service announcement (Short version) --- Section Separator --- To help to make summer unstoppable, we have developed a music track featuring Dr Ashley Bloomfield. This video is available to use at events and festivals. If you would like the raw video files, please contact us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Order collateral to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable. Order collateral to help make summer unstoppable (external link) If you cannot use this form, email us to order. Email Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- If you are running an event this summer it is important that it is as safe as possible for you and your event attendees. To help you play your part, we’ve created an event activation toolkit, as well as a checklist to ensure your event is as safe as possible. Event activation toolkit [PDF, 21 MB] Events checklist [PDF, 7.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Business checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 6.2 MB] Events checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 7.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- You can add text or images relevant to events, people or places in your region. Make summer unstoppable A3 template — blue [PDF, 1.7 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 template — red [PDF, 1.4 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 839 KB] Make festivals unstoppable A3 template [PDF, 2.3 MB] [Business or event] for an unstoppable summer A3 template — yellow [PDF, 26 MB] Make business unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 37 MB] Make events unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 59 MB] Make festivals unstoppable A3 poster [PDF, 1.9 MB] Make BBQs unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 8.6 MB] Make beaches unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 3.6 MB] Make family time unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 9.9 MB] Make music unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 20 MB] Make pool days unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 8.5 MB] Make waves unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 6 MB] Make events unstoppable A3 poster [PDF, 117 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 poster — beach [PDF, 6.1 MB] Scan QR codes A3 poster — icon [PDF, 2.9 MB] Scan QR codes A3 poster — photo [PDF, 2.7 MB] Scan QR codes A1 poster — icon [PDF, 2.9 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A3 poster — icon [PDF, 3.3 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A3 poster — photo [PDF, 3.1 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A1 poster — icon [PDF, 3.3 MB] Stay home if you’re sick A3 poster — icon [PDF, 3.5 MB] Stay home if you're sick A3 poster — photo [PDF, 8.1 MB] Stay home if you’re sick A1 poster — icon [PDF, 3.5 MB] Wash your hands A3 poster — icon [PDF, 2.8 MB] Wash your hands A3 poster — photo [PDF, 7.2 MB] Wash your hands A1 poster — icon [PDF, 2.8 MB] This poster has space in the centre to add your event’s QR code, name and address details. Put your QR code here A3 poster [PDF, 880 KB] Put your QR code here A1 poster [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- These digital banners are 1600x500 pixels. Make summer unstoppable — blue [JPG, 346 KB] Make summer unstoppable — red [JPG, 349 KB] Make business unstoppable — blue [PNG, 181 KB] Make events unstoppable — blue [PNG, 175 KB] Make festivals unstoppable — blue [PNG, 194 KB] Scan QR codes [JPG, 301 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [JPG, 319 KB] Stay home if you’re sick [JPG, 271 KB] Wash your hands [JPG, 286 KB] --- Section Separator --- These social media tiles are 1080x1080 pixels. Make summer unstoppable — blue [JPG, 449 KB] Make summer unstoppable — red [JPG, 453 KB] Make business unstoppable — blue [PNG, 223 KB] Make events unstoppable — blue [PNG, 216 KB] Make festivals unstoppable — blue [PNG, 244 KB] Scan QR codes [JPG, 426 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [JPG, 448 KB] Stay home if you’re sick [JPG, 349 KB] Wash your hands [JPG, 397 KB] --- Section Separator --- Table talker with QR code [PDF, 32 MB] Table talker with no QR code [PDF, 32 MB] --- Section Separator --- You can download our posters and add in your own text or images so they work for you. If you need something else to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable, contact us with your design request. Please include a high resolution image and the relevant specs. We cannot cater to every request but we’ll do our best to provide you with design files. Email your request to Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Misinformation and scams Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Alternate formats Translations COVID-19 vaccine resources
