This summer will be our first under COVID-19 conditions. It’s important we look after ourselves and our whānau over the festive season and summer holidays. You may be interested in: --- Section Separator --- If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. The NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus. Scan QR codes wherever you are, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. Washing your hands is 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. --- Section Separator --- Over the summer break, the Ministry of Health will publish media releases on Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday every week until 10 January 2021. Visit the Ministry of Health website for the latest media releases (external link) --- Section Separator --- An additional test for COVID-19 will be required for returnees from higher risk countries on their arrival in New Zealand from midnight 31 December 2020. Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori New Zealand Sign Language عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Large print and audio Easy Read
How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. Access covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Who to contact if you want advice, have questions or want to give us feedback on the website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives. --- Section Separator --- How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. Access covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Who to contact if you want advice, have questions or want to give us feedback on the website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives.
Home About this site Terms of use --- Section Separator --- By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. --- Section Separator --- Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. --- Section Separator --- Unless indicated otherwise, all content on covid19.govt.nz is licensed for re-use under a Creative Commons 4.0 Attribution Non-Commercial International Public Licence. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. CC-BY-NC 4.0 international license terms (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, icons, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, icon, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Use this website for free from your mobile Contact and feedback Archive
Home About this site Use this website for free from your mobile --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz We’ve removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you'll have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Warehouse Mobile operating on the 2Degrees network. Digital Island, CallPlus/Slingshot, Compass operating on the Spark network. Black+White, Orcon, M2 operating on the Vodafone network. Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. --- Section Separator --- Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- We’ve removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. --- Section Separator --- If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you'll have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Warehouse Mobile operating on the 2Degrees network. Digital Island, CallPlus/Slingshot, Compass operating on the Spark network. Black+White, Orcon, M2 operating on the Vodafone network. --- Section Separator --- Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Use this website for free from your mobile Contact and feedback Archive
The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. At Alert Level 2 the disease is contained, but there is a risk of community transmission. Alert Level 3 information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Information about our Alert Level system, and summaries of the measures that may be applied at each Alert Level. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Our plan to manage any potential resurgence over summer. The Government has a range of actions including the Alert System, border restrictions and testing. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. --- Section Separator --- The Alert Level tells us what measures we need to take. At Alert Level 1 we all need to be ready in case COVID-19 reappears in our community. At Alert Level 2 the disease is contained, but there is a risk of community transmission. Alert Level 3 information on personal movement, exercise, education, work, business, travel and gatherings. New Zealand's COVID-19 Alert Levels can be applied to individual regions. Additional restrictions can also be applied to stop the spread of COVID-19. Information about our Alert Level system, and summaries of the measures that may be applied at each Alert Level. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Our plan to manage any potential resurgence over summer. The Government has a range of actions including the Alert System, border restrictions and testing. If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it.
Home COVID-19 Alert System About the Alert System --- Section Separator --- The Government reviewed Auckland’s Alert Level on Monday 5 October. It decided to move Auckland down to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm on Wednesday 7 October. There are no more announcements planned for New Zealand’s Alert Levels. The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The measures may be updated on the basis of: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of intervention measures in New Zealand and elsewhere. The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency Likely the disease is not contained. Sustained and intensive community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks. People instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings cancelled and all public venues closed. Businesses closed except for essential services. For example, supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities. Educational facilities closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. High risk the disease is not contained. Multiple cases of community transmission occurring. Multiple active clusters in multiple regions. People instructed to stay home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement — including to go to work, school if they have to, or for local recreation. Physical distancing of 2 metres outside home, or 1 metre in controlled environments like schools and workplaces. People must stay within their immediate household bubble, but can expand this to connect with close family/whānau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. This extended bubble should remain exclusive. Schools (years 1 to 10) and Early Childhood Education centres can safely open, but will have limited capacity. Children should learn at home if possible. People must work from home unless that is not possible. Businesses cannot offer services that involve close personal contact, unless it is a supermarket, primary produce retailer, pharmacy, petrol station or hardware store providing goods to trade customers, or it is an emergency or critical situation. Other businesses can open premises, but cannot physically interact with customers. Low risk local recreation activities are allowed. Public venues are closed. For example, libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds, markets. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed but only for wedding services, funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Healthcare services use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. Inter-regional travel is highly limited. For example, for critical workers, with limited exemptions for others. People at high risk of severe illness, such as older people and those with existing medical conditions, are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. They may choose to work. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Limited community transmission could be occurring. Active clusters in more than 1 region. People can connect with friends and family, and socialise in groups of up to 100, go shopping, or travel domestically, if following public health guidance. Keep physical distancing of 2 metres from people you do not know when out in public or in retail stores. Keep 1 metre physical distancing in controlled environments like workplaces, where practicable. No more than 100 people at gatherings, including weddings, birthdays and funerals and tangihanga. Businesses can open to the public if following public health guidance including physical distancing and record keeping. Alternative ways of working encouraged where possible. Hospitality businesses legally must keep groups of customers separated, seated, and served by a single person. Maximum of 100 people at a time. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, record keeping, and physical distancing where practical. Public venues such as museums, libraries and pools can open if they comply with public health measures and ensure 1 metre physical distancing and record keeping. Event facilities, including cinemas, stadiums, concert venues and casinos can have more than 100 people at a time, provided that there are no more than 100 in a defined space, and the groups do not mix. Health and disability care services operate as normally as possible. It is safe to send your children to schools, early learning services and tertiary education. There will be appropriate measures in place. People at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19, such as those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and seniors, are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. They may work, if they agree with their employer that they can do so safely. Face coverings required on public transport and aircraft, but not inter-island ferries. School buses and children under 12 are exempt along with passengers in taxis or rideshare services and people with disabilities or mental health conditions. Detailed information about Alert Level 2 The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. Sporadic imported cases. Isolated local transmission could be occurring in New Zealand. Border entry measures to minimise risk of importing COVID-19 cases. Intensive testing for COVID-19. Rapid contact tracing of any positive case. Self-isolation and quarantine required. Schools and workplaces open, and legally must operate safely. No restrictions on personal movement but people are encouraged to maintain a record of where they have been. No restrictions on gatherings but organisers encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. Stay home if you’re sick, report flu-like symptoms. Wash and dry hands, cough into elbow, do not touch your face. No restrictions on domestic transport — avoid public transport or travel if sick. No restrictions on workplaces or services but they are encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport to enable use of the NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Detailed information about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- The Government reviewed Auckland’s Alert Level on Monday 5 October. It decided to move Auckland down to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm on Wednesday 7 October. There are no more announcements planned for New Zealand’s Alert Levels. --- Section Separator --- The Alert System was introduced in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The measures may be updated on the basis of: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of intervention measures in New Zealand and elsewhere. The Alert Levels may be applied at a town, city, territorial local authority, regional or national level. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, essential services including health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will remain up and running. Employers in those sectors legally must continue to meet their health and safety obligations. At all Alert Levels, if there is another emergency, follow normal emergency procedures. Emergency evacuation orders will override COVID-19 Alert System requirements to stay at home. What to do in an emergency --- Section Separator --- Likely the disease is not contained. Sustained and intensive community transmission is occurring. Widespread outbreaks. People instructed to stay at home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement. Safe recreational activity is allowed in local area. Travel is severely limited. All gatherings cancelled and all public venues closed. Businesses closed except for essential services. For example, supermarkets, pharmacies, clinics, petrol stations and lifeline utilities. Educational facilities closed. Rationing of supplies and requisitioning of facilities possible. Reprioritisation of healthcare services. --- Section Separator --- High risk the disease is not contained. Multiple cases of community transmission occurring. Multiple active clusters in multiple regions. People instructed to stay home in their bubble other than for essential personal movement — including to go to work, school if they have to, or for local recreation. Physical distancing of 2 metres outside home, or 1 metre in controlled environments like schools and workplaces. People must stay within their immediate household bubble, but can expand this to connect with close family/whānau, or bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. This extended bubble should remain exclusive. Schools (years 1 to 10) and Early Childhood Education centres can safely open, but will have limited capacity. Children should learn at home if possible. People must work from home unless that is not possible. Businesses cannot offer services that involve close personal contact, unless it is a supermarket, primary produce retailer, pharmacy, petrol station or hardware store providing goods to trade customers, or it is an emergency or critical situation. Other businesses can open premises, but cannot physically interact with customers. Low risk local recreation activities are allowed. Public venues are closed. For example, libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds, markets. Gatherings of up to 10 people are allowed but only for wedding services, funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Healthcare services use virtual, non-contact consultations where possible. Inter-regional travel is highly limited. For example, for critical workers, with limited exemptions for others. People at high risk of severe illness, such as older people and those with existing medical conditions, are encouraged to stay at home where possible, and take additional precautions when leaving home. They may choose to work. Detailed information about Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- The disease is contained, but the risk of community transmission remains. Limited community transmission could be occurring. Active clusters in more than 1 region. People can connect with friends and family, and socialise in groups of up to 100, go shopping, or travel domestically, if following public health guidance. Keep physical distancing of 2 metres from people you do not know when out in public or in retail stores. Keep 1 metre physical distancing in controlled environments like workplaces, where practicable. No more than 100 people at gatherings, including weddings, birthdays and funerals and tangihanga. Businesses can open to the public if following public health guidance including physical distancing and record keeping. Alternative ways of working encouraged where possible. Hospitality businesses legally must keep groups of customers separated, seated, and served by a single person. Maximum of 100 people at a time. Sport and recreation activities are allowed, subject to conditions on gatherings, record keeping, and physical distancing where practical. Public venues such as museums, libraries and pools can open if they comply with public health measures and ensure 1 metre physical distancing and record keeping. Event facilities, including cinemas, stadiums, concert venues and casinos can have more than 100 people at a time, provided that there are no more than 100 in a defined space, and the groups do not mix. Health and disability care services operate as normally as possible. It is safe to send your children to schools, early learning services and tertiary education. There will be appropriate measures in place. People at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19, such as those with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and seniors, are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. They may work, if they agree with their employer that they can do so safely. Face coverings required on public transport and aircraft, but not inter-island ferries. School buses and children under 12 are exempt along with passengers in taxis or rideshare services and people with disabilities or mental health conditions. Detailed information about Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- The disease is contained in New Zealand. COVID-19 is uncontrolled overseas. Sporadic imported cases. Isolated local transmission could be occurring in New Zealand. Border entry measures to minimise risk of importing COVID-19 cases. Intensive testing for COVID-19. Rapid contact tracing of any positive case. Self-isolation and quarantine required. Schools and workplaces open, and legally must operate safely. No restrictions on personal movement but people are encouraged to maintain a record of where they have been. No restrictions on gatherings but organisers encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. Stay home if you’re sick, report flu-like symptoms. Wash and dry hands, cough into elbow, do not touch your face. No restrictions on domestic transport — avoid public transport or travel if sick. No restrictions on workplaces or services but they are encouraged to maintain records to enable contact tracing. QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport to enable use of the NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Detailed information about Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Home COVID-19 Alert System Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Wear a face covering Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Travel to New Zealand Staying at home if you’re sick is especially important at Alert Level 1. The risk of COVID-19 being spread in the community is much greater when there are no restrictions on gatherings or going out. What to do if you’re sick If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to see if you need a test. COVID-19 symptoms Getting a COVID-19 test Keep up good hand washing practices, using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying thoroughly. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep surfaces clean. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy Continuing good habits with face coverings will keep you and others safe, even at Alert Level 1. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. You legally must wear a face covering when you’re travelling on a domestic flight anywhere in New Zealand. This does not include private flights. We encourage you to use face coverings on public transport and when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, for example in supermarkets. Be prepared by having a supply of face coverings for everyone who usually lives in your household. Add some to your household emergency kit. Wear a face covering Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. We encourage you to continue tracking where you’ve been and who you’ve seen to help with contact tracing, if required. You can use the NZ COVID Tracer app on public transport, in workplaces and when visiting businesses and shops. You can also add manual entries for places you've been that do not have a QR code poster. NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Alternatively, you can keep your own diary with details of places you’ve visited, the time you were there and who you were with. How to keep track of where you’ve been Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster to help customers to keep track of where they’ve been. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, but it’s still worthwhile to keep a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Controls at the borders remain for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you’re sick is especially important at Alert Level 1. The risk of COVID-19 being spread in the community is much greater when there are no restrictions on gatherings or going out. What to do if you’re sick If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 to see if you need a test. COVID-19 symptoms Getting a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Keep up good hand washing practices, using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and drying thoroughly. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep surfaces clean. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy --- Section Separator --- Continuing good habits with face coverings will keep you and others safe, even at Alert Level 1. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. You legally must wear a face covering when you’re travelling on a domestic flight anywhere in New Zealand. This does not include private flights. We encourage you to use face coverings on public transport and when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, for example in supermarkets. Be prepared by having a supply of face coverings for everyone who usually lives in your household. Add some to your household emergency kit. Wear a face covering Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. We encourage you to continue tracking where you’ve been and who you’ve seen to help with contact tracing, if required. You can use the NZ COVID Tracer app on public transport, in workplaces and when visiting businesses and shops. You can also add manual entries for places you've been that do not have a QR code poster. NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) Alternatively, you can keep your own diary with details of places you’ve visited, the time you were there and who you were with. How to keep track of where you’ve been Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster to help customers to keep track of where they’ve been. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, but it’s still worthwhile to keep a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help to minimise the spread of COVID-19 if community transmission returns. --- Section Separator --- If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Home COVID-19 Alert System Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- The Government reviewed Auckland’s Alert Level on Monday 5 October. It decided to move Auckland down to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm on Wednesday 7 October. There are no more announcements planned for New Zealand’s Alert Levels. If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. Tests are free COVID-19 symptoms At Alert Level 2 there may be some situations where you need to self-isolate or go into a quarantine facility. Who needs to self-isolate or quarantine, and how testing works It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy You should keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses are legally required to display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. They legally must also have an alternative contact tracing system. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster At Alert Level 2, you can leave home, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep at least: 2 metres in public and in retail stores, like supermarkets and clothes shops. 1 metre in most other places like workplaces, cafes, restaurants and gyms. Physical distancing detailed information At Alert Level 2 the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You: legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft are encouraged to wear face coverings in situations where physical distancing is not possible, like in shops. Face covering advice and requirements You can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You should not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Local travel restrictions You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 2 or lower. Regional travel There are controls at the border for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Travel to New Zealand No more than 100 people at social gatherings, including weddings, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. There are specific restrictions at Alert Level 2 depending on the type of gathering: Gatherings, event facilities and public facilities Eating out and getting takeaways safely Going out to bars and night clubs Funerals and tangihanga Religious communities You can do your usual exercise and recreation activities, if you can do them safely. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. How to exercise safely at Alert Level 2 Gatherings, events and public facilities Businesses can open, but they legally must follow public health rules. These include physical distancing and record keeping. How to do business at Alert Level 2 Reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Alternative ways of working are encouraged where possible. Talk with your staff to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. Face coverings are strongly encouraged if you are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 Early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are open to all ages. There are some restrictions if a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 is found related to an educational facility. Educational facility restrictions at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- The Government reviewed Auckland’s Alert Level on Monday 5 October. It decided to move Auckland down to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm on Wednesday 7 October. There are no more announcements planned for New Zealand’s Alert Levels. --- Section Separator --- If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. Tests are free COVID-19 symptoms At Alert Level 2 there may be some situations where you need to self-isolate or go into a quarantine facility. Who needs to self-isolate or quarantine, and how testing works It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy You should keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses are legally required to display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. They legally must also have an alternative contact tracing system. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can leave home, but you should follow public health measures and consider others around you. Keep your distance when outside your home. You should keep at least: 2 metres in public and in retail stores, like supermarkets and clothes shops. 1 metre in most other places like workplaces, cafes, restaurants and gyms. Physical distancing detailed information At Alert Level 2 the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You: legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft are encouraged to wear face coverings in situations where physical distancing is not possible, like in shops. Face covering advice and requirements You can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You should not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. Local travel restrictions You can travel to other regions that are at Alert Level 2 or lower. Regional travel There are controls at the border for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- No more than 100 people at social gatherings, including weddings, birthdays, funerals and tangihanga. There are specific restrictions at Alert Level 2 depending on the type of gathering: Gatherings, event facilities and public facilities Eating out and getting takeaways safely Going out to bars and night clubs Funerals and tangihanga Religious communities --- Section Separator --- You can do your usual exercise and recreation activities, if you can do them safely. Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. How to exercise safely at Alert Level 2 Gatherings, events and public facilities --- Section Separator --- Businesses can open, but they legally must follow public health rules. These include physical distancing and record keeping. How to do business at Alert Level 2 Reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Alternative ways of working are encouraged where possible. Talk with your staff to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. Face coverings are strongly encouraged if you are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. --- Section Separator --- If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and tertiary education facilities are open to all ages. There are some restrictions if a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19 is found related to an educational facility. Educational facility restrictions at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Home COVID-19 Alert System Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- If you’re sick, stay home. Don’t go to work or school. Don’t socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms call your doctor or Healthline and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. Tests are free COVID-19 symptoms At Alert Level 3 you legally must stay home in self-isolation until you receive your results. How testing and quarantine works It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy We recommend you keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster At Alert Level 3, we recommend you stay in your household bubbles whenever you’re not at work or school. You legally must stay within your household bubble. You can expand this to: connect with close family and whānau bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. It’s important to protect your bubble. Keep your bubble exclusive and only include people where it will keep you and them safe and healthy. If anyone within your bubble feels unwell, they legally must immediately self-isolate from everyone else within the bubble. Do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, extended family and whānau, to enter your home. Keep your distance when outside your home. Maintain physical distancing of 2 metres outside your home, when buying the groceries or exercising. You’re strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people, like in shops. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. Face covering advice and requirements You can travel within your local area, for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Public transport can continue to operate with strict health and safety requirements. Local travel at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3 travel between regions is heavily restricted. Regional travel There are controls at the border for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Travel to New Zealand Gatherings of up to 10 people can continue, but only for: wedding services funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Gatherings and events at Alert Level 3 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Religious communities at Alert Level 3 Public venues legally must close. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds and markets. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. You can do low-risk recreation activities in your local area. How to exercise and do recreational activities safely at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff working from home if they can. How to do business at Alert Level 3 If your business requires close physical contact it can’t operate. We recommend your staff work from home if they can. Businesses need to display a QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend making sure people either scan in or provide their contact details. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business legally must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Basic hygiene measures legally must be maintained. Physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Workers legally must stay home if they are sick. Staff legally must remain a minimum of 1 metre apart at all times where practical. Other measures, such as PPE including face coverings, we recommend being used where appropriate. Different advice applies to essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders and corrections staff. You can get further advice  from the Ministry of Health (external link) . You legally must meet all other health and safety obligations. At Alert Level 3, most business and services can operate (in accordance with the required public health measures), but there are restrictions on the businesses that can operate with customers on their premises. In December 2020 the settings for businesses and services at Alert Level 3 were updated to: provide that contactless pick-up be permitted to take place within malls, outside individual stores rather than outside the mall itself; and allow butchers, fishmongers and greengrocers to operate on the same basis as supermarkets and dairies – i.e. with customers on their premises. If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 Where possible we encourage students to learn from home. Schools can safely open but will have limited capacity. Educational facility restrictions at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- If you’re sick, stay home. Don’t go to work or school. Don’t socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms call your doctor or Healthline and get advice about being tested. If you have been told to self-isolate you legally must do so immediately. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. Tests are free COVID-19 symptoms At Alert Level 3 you legally must stay home in self-isolation until you receive your results. How testing and quarantine works It’s important that you use basic hygiene measures, including washing your hands, coughing or sneezing into your elbow and cleaning surfaces. How to practise good hygiene and stay healthy We recommend you keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This helps with rapid contact tracing if it’s required. How to keep track of where you’ve been Businesses legally must display the NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. Get your NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, we recommend you stay in your household bubbles whenever you’re not at work or school. You legally must stay within your household bubble. You can expand this to: connect with close family and whānau bring in caregivers, or support isolated people. It’s important to protect your bubble. Keep your bubble exclusive and only include people where it will keep you and them safe and healthy. If anyone within your bubble feels unwell, they legally must immediately self-isolate from everyone else within the bubble. Do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, extended family and whānau, to enter your home. Keep your distance when outside your home. Maintain physical distancing of 2 metres outside your home, when buying the groceries or exercising. You’re strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people, like in shops. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. Face covering advice and requirements You can travel within your local area, for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. Public transport can continue to operate with strict health and safety requirements. Local travel at Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3 travel between regions is heavily restricted. Regional travel There are controls at the border for those entering New Zealand. This includes health screening and testing for all arrivals, and mandatory 14 day managed isolation or quarantine. Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Gatherings of up to 10 people can continue, but only for: wedding services funerals and tangihanga. Physical distancing and public health measures legally must be maintained. Gatherings and events at Alert Level 3 Funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 3 Religious communities at Alert Level 3 Public venues legally must close. This includes libraries, museums, cinemas, food courts, gyms, pools, playgrounds and markets. --- Section Separator --- Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. You can do low-risk recreation activities in your local area. How to exercise and do recreational activities safely at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, there are restrictions to keep workers safe, limit interaction with customers and help prevent the spread of COVID-19. We recommend staff working from home if they can. How to do business at Alert Level 3 If your business requires close physical contact it can’t operate. We recommend your staff work from home if they can. Businesses need to display a QR code and have an alternative contact tracing system. We recommend making sure people either scan in or provide their contact details. Customers cannot come onto your premises — unless you are a supermarket, dairy, butcher, fishmonger, greengrocer, petrol station, pharmacy or permitted health service. Your business legally must be contactless. Your customers can pay online, over the phone or in a contactless way. Delivery or pick-up legally must also be contactless. Basic hygiene measures legally must be maintained. Physical distancing, hand washing and regularly cleaning surfaces. Workers legally must stay home if they are sick. Staff legally must remain a minimum of 1 metre apart at all times where practical. Other measures, such as PPE including face coverings, we recommend being used where appropriate. Different advice applies to essential healthcare workers, border agencies, courts and tribunal staff, first responders and corrections staff. You can get further advice  from the Ministry of Health (external link) . You legally must meet all other health and safety obligations. At Alert Level 3, most business and services can operate (in accordance with the required public health measures), but there are restrictions on the businesses that can operate with customers on their premises. In December 2020 the settings for businesses and services at Alert Level 3 were updated to: provide that contactless pick-up be permitted to take place within malls, outside individual stores rather than outside the mall itself; and allow butchers, fishmongers and greengrocers to operate on the same basis as supermarkets and dairies – i.e. with customers on their premises. --- Section Separator --- If you’re having trouble with money, there may be support for you. Financial support information --- Section Separator --- People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are encouraged to take additional precautions when leaving home. Advice for people at risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Where possible we encourage students to learn from home. Schools can safely open but will have limited capacity. Educational facility restrictions at Alert Level 3 --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Home COVID-19 Alert System COVID-19 compliance --- Section Separator --- If you’re concerned that someone is not following the rules you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Alert Level restrictions managed isolation requirements. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- If you’re concerned that someone is not following the rules you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: Alert Level restrictions managed isolation requirements. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
New Zealand is still at Alert Level 1. What we need to do at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. The NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus. Scan QR codes wherever you are, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. Washing your hands is 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble.
Home COVID-19 Alert System Government actions --- Section Separator --- The Alert System was introduced by the Government in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The system helps us to stop the spread of COVID-19, with different measures at each Alert Level. About the COVID-19 Alert System Border entry measures are in place to minimise the risk of importing COVID-19 cases. The border is closed, except for New Zealand citizens and residents, and a small number of limited exceptions — such as critical workers. Exemptions are managed by Immigration New Zealand (external link) . Border closures and exceptions (external link) Anyone returning to New Zealand from overseas legally must complete 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine before returning to the community. Arriving back in New Zealand Keeping COVID-19 out means we need to identify any cases if they emerge. At this stage, our greatest risk of COVID-19 is via our border. Testing is prioritised for people who are most likely to have COVID-19. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. Other people with COVID-19 symptoms may also be tested. This is to help ensure that we don’t have community transmission in New Zealand. Our approach to testing --- Section Separator --- The Alert System was introduced by the Government in March 2020 to manage and minimise the risk of COVID-19 in New Zealand. The system helps people understand the current level of risk and the restrictions that legally must be followed. The system helps us to stop the spread of COVID-19, with different measures at each Alert Level. About the COVID-19 Alert System --- Section Separator --- Border entry measures are in place to minimise the risk of importing COVID-19 cases. The border is closed, except for New Zealand citizens and residents, and a small number of limited exceptions — such as critical workers. Exemptions are managed by Immigration New Zealand (external link) . Border closures and exceptions (external link) Anyone returning to New Zealand from overseas legally must complete 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine before returning to the community. Arriving back in New Zealand Keeping COVID-19 out means we need to identify any cases if they emerge. At this stage, our greatest risk of COVID-19 is via our border. Testing is prioritised for people who are most likely to have COVID-19. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. Other people with COVID-19 symptoms may also be tested. This is to help ensure that we don’t have community transmission in New Zealand. Our approach to testing --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Home COVID-19 Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions, except Auckland, move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2, without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings, at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. --- Section Separator --- The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. --- Section Separator --- The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. --- Section Separator --- At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- All regions, except Auckland, move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2, without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings, at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Home COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan --- Section Separator --- In summer New Zealanders travel around the country, socialise, and go to large events, increasing the possible spread of COVID-19 in the community. During the holidays, this can make any response more challenging — but we’ve got a plan. Our plan outlines how to reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. How we will reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. What you can do to reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases: Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your NZ COVID Tracer app. Scan QR codes wherever you go. Wash and dry your hands. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Stay home if you're sick, and call Healthline or your doctor to see about a test. Travel with a 'COVID-19 kit' — soap, hand sanitiser and a face covering. How we will ready our toolkit. Border entry measures: Managed Isolation & Quarantine, and workforce testing. Contact tracing: NZ COVID Tracer app/Bluetooth data and push notifications, and an on-call workforce. Community testing: Targeted testing of contacts, surveillance testing, pop-up stations, and an on-call workforce. Face coverings: Where physical distancing is not possible. Alert Level change: Localised with a boundary to contain the virus, or nationwide. How we would respond if resurgence happens. Community case confirmed and transmission risk assessed. If needed, Ministry of Health COVID-19 Resurgence Plan and National Resurgence Response Plan activated. The location and extent of outbreak risk is assessed. A central government leadership group decides if no further action is required, or monitors the situation, or activates response system. If the response system is activated, a team of central and local government, iwi and community leaders work with local Civil Defence and Emergency Management to manage the outbreak, including: the immediate public health response care for vulnerable people and communities supporting businesses. COVID-19 is a tricky virus — we’ve learned a lot from our experience so far, but we all have a part to play in stopping the spread. Our ‘test, trace and isolate’ approach focuses on being able to test lots of people and quickly trace and isolate contacts. We cannot predict where or how a new case might appear in the community, but we’ve done a lot of planning to handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances such as the location or timing, it’s useful to think of 3 scenarios over summer. A border worker tests positive as part of routine testing. Rapid contact tracing finds the person has had limited movements and few contacts with people while not at work. This is a standard ‘test, trace and isolate’ case. New Zealand would likely remain in Alert Level 1. Summer holidays are not likely to be interrupted. Keep an eye out for updates on this website and on our Facebook page Unite against COVID-19 Facebook page (external link) A person tests positive while on holiday at a campsite. Initial investigation finds the person is related to a border worker. There is a good chance that contact tracing will identify anyone else they may have infected. Local or regional testing capacity would be ramped up. Targeted restrictions and/or Alert Level changes are possible. Campers would be asked to follow official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. A person tests positive after they travel home from a large music festival in a different region. Investigation finds no link to the border. A large number of people were possibly exposed at the festival and have now travelled out of the region. There is a high risk of transmission across the country. The nature of the festival will make identifying close contacts difficult. Testing capacity would be ramped up nationwide. A nationwide Alert Level change is possible. Events may be cancelled, and New Zealanders may be asked to stay where they are in their bubble while they wait for official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] --- Section Separator --- In summer New Zealanders travel around the country, socialise, and go to large events, increasing the possible spread of COVID-19 in the community. During the holidays, this can make any response more challenging — but we’ve got a plan. Our plan outlines how to reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. --- Section Separator --- How we will reduce the risk of, get ready for and respond to new COVID-19 cases. What you can do to reduce the risk of new COVID-19 cases: Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your NZ COVID Tracer app. Scan QR codes wherever you go. Wash and dry your hands. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Stay home if you're sick, and call Healthline or your doctor to see about a test. Travel with a 'COVID-19 kit' — soap, hand sanitiser and a face covering. How we will ready our toolkit. Border entry measures: Managed Isolation & Quarantine, and workforce testing. Contact tracing: NZ COVID Tracer app/Bluetooth data and push notifications, and an on-call workforce. Community testing: Targeted testing of contacts, surveillance testing, pop-up stations, and an on-call workforce. Face coverings: Where physical distancing is not possible. Alert Level change: Localised with a boundary to contain the virus, or nationwide. How we would respond if resurgence happens. Community case confirmed and transmission risk assessed. If needed, Ministry of Health COVID-19 Resurgence Plan and National Resurgence Response Plan activated. The location and extent of outbreak risk is assessed. A central government leadership group decides if no further action is required, or monitors the situation, or activates response system. If the response system is activated, a team of central and local government, iwi and community leaders work with local Civil Defence and Emergency Management to manage the outbreak, including: the immediate public health response care for vulnerable people and communities supporting businesses. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a tricky virus — we’ve learned a lot from our experience so far, but we all have a part to play in stopping the spread. Our ‘test, trace and isolate’ approach focuses on being able to test lots of people and quickly trace and isolate contacts. We cannot predict where or how a new case might appear in the community, but we’ve done a lot of planning to handle a wide range of possible situations. While any response will depend on the circumstances such as the location or timing, it’s useful to think of 3 scenarios over summer. A border worker tests positive as part of routine testing. Rapid contact tracing finds the person has had limited movements and few contacts with people while not at work. This is a standard ‘test, trace and isolate’ case. New Zealand would likely remain in Alert Level 1. Summer holidays are not likely to be interrupted. Keep an eye out for updates on this website and on our Facebook page Unite against COVID-19 Facebook page (external link) A person tests positive while on holiday at a campsite. Initial investigation finds the person is related to a border worker. There is a good chance that contact tracing will identify anyone else they may have infected. Local or regional testing capacity would be ramped up. Targeted restrictions and/or Alert Level changes are possible. Campers would be asked to follow official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. A person tests positive after they travel home from a large music festival in a different region. Investigation finds no link to the border. A large number of people were possibly exposed at the festival and have now travelled out of the region. There is a high risk of transmission across the country. The nature of the festival will make identifying close contacts difficult. Testing capacity would be ramped up nationwide. A nationwide Alert Level change is possible. Events may be cancelled, and New Zealanders may be asked to stay where they are in their bubble while they wait for official advice. Follow official advice, watch for media announcements and keep an eye on this website. --- Section Separator --- Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] --- Section Separator --- Current Alert Level Alert Level 1 Alert Level 2 Alert Level 3 Regional advice About the Alert System History of the COVID-19 Alert System National COVID-19 summer resurgence plan Government actions COVID-19 compliance
Advice about what to do if you’re in Auckland region. Advice about what to do if you’re in Greater Wellington region. Advice about what to do if you’re in Canterbury region. --- Section Separator --- Advice about what to do if you’re in Auckland region. Advice about what to do if you’re in Greater Wellington region. Advice about what to do if you’re in Canterbury region.
Home COVID-19 Alert System Regional advice Auckland --- Section Separator --- An Air New Zealand staff member has tested positive for COVID-19 while in China. The Ministry of Health is following public health protocols and investigating this case as if this were a confirmed case in New Zealand. This person visited several places on Friday 20 November and Saturday 21 November before they left New Zealand. Locations of interest, and what you should do if you visited them (external link) If you are concerned about the recent COVID-19 case, you can call Healthline for support and advice about getting tested. 0800 358 5453 If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and get advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick You should get tested if you have cold, flu, or COVID-19 symptoms. You may also need to get a test if you visited a location of interest. COVID-19 symptoms Testing locations in Auckland (external link) Locations of interest are places where someone with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest around the same time, you may be a casual contact. What you should do if you visited a location of interest depends on the location. Locations of interest, and what you need to do if you visited them (external link) Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering Employers have an important role to support employees and customers to follow public health guidelines. Support New Zealand’s defence against COVID-19 by ensuring that: you display your QR code your employees can stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work. If you operate a public-facing business in central Auckland, encourage your staff to wear masks or face coverings. How to do business safely at Alert Level 1 Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. The app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan, the safer we’ll be. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- An Air New Zealand staff member has tested positive for COVID-19 while in China. The Ministry of Health is following public health protocols and investigating this case as if this were a confirmed case in New Zealand. This person visited several places on Friday 20 November and Saturday 21 November before they left New Zealand. Locations of interest, and what you should do if you visited them (external link) If you are concerned about the recent COVID-19 case, you can call Healthline for support and advice about getting tested. 0800 358 5453 --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and get advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick --- Section Separator --- You should get tested if you have cold, flu, or COVID-19 symptoms. You may also need to get a test if you visited a location of interest. COVID-19 symptoms Testing locations in Auckland (external link) --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest around the same time, you may be a casual contact. What you should do if you visited a location of interest depends on the location. Locations of interest, and what you need to do if you visited them (external link) --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Employers have an important role to support employees and customers to follow public health guidelines. Support New Zealand’s defence against COVID-19 by ensuring that: you display your QR code your employees can stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work. If you operate a public-facing business in central Auckland, encourage your staff to wear masks or face coverings. How to do business safely at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. The app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan, the safer we’ll be. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- Auckland Wellington Canterbury
Home COVID-19 Alert System Regional advice Canterbury --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has confirmed 2 workers at the Sudima managed isolation facility in Christchurch have tested positive for COVID-19. Latest details on the case Contact tracing locations of interest (external link) If you are concerned about the recent COVID-19 case in Christchurch, you can call Healthline for support and advice about getting tested. 0800 358 5453 If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick COVID-19 symptoms Testing locations in Canterbury (external link) Locations of interest are places where someone with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest around the same time, you may be a casual contact. What you should do if you visited a location of interest depends on the location. Locations of interest, and what you need to do if you visited them (external link) Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. The app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan, the safer we’ll be. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet Please wear a face covering on public transport, including flights. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. Wear a face covering These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has confirmed 2 workers at the Sudima managed isolation facility in Christchurch have tested positive for COVID-19. Latest details on the case Contact tracing locations of interest (external link) If you are concerned about the recent COVID-19 case in Christchurch, you can call Healthline for support and advice about getting tested. 0800 358 5453 --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick COVID-19 symptoms Testing locations in Canterbury (external link) --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest around the same time, you may be a casual contact. What you should do if you visited a location of interest depends on the location. Locations of interest, and what you need to do if you visited them (external link) --- Section Separator --- Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. The app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan, the safer we’ll be. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- Please wear a face covering on public transport, including flights. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- Auckland Wellington Canterbury
Home COVID-19 Alert System Regional advice Wellington --- Section Separator --- On 12 November, the Ministry of Health confirmed a new case of COVID-19 in Wellington. They are now in a quarantine facility in Wellington. Details on the Wellington cases Contact tracing locations of interest (external link) If you are concerned about the recent COVID-19 case in Wellington, you can call Healthline for support and advice about getting tested. 0800 358 5453 If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick COVID-19 symptoms Testing locations in Wellington (external link) Locations of interest are places where someone with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest around the same time, you may be a casual contact. What you should do if you visited a location of interest depends on the location. Locations of interest, and what you need to do if you visited them (external link) Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. The app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan, the safer we’ll be. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet Please wear a face covering on public transport, including flights. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. Wear a face covering These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- On 12 November, the Ministry of Health confirmed a new case of COVID-19 in Wellington. They are now in a quarantine facility in Wellington. Details on the Wellington cases Contact tracing locations of interest (external link) If you are concerned about the recent COVID-19 case in Wellington, you can call Healthline for support and advice about getting tested. 0800 358 5453 --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell, isolate wherever you are and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. Stay home if you’re sick COVID-19 symptoms Testing locations in Wellington (external link) --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest around the same time, you may be a casual contact. What you should do if you visited a location of interest depends on the location. Locations of interest, and what you need to do if you visited them (external link) --- Section Separator --- Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. The app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan, the safer we’ll be. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. Download the NZ COVID Tracer app Print your NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- Please wear a face covering on public transport, including flights. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. It helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- These simple steps can slow the spread of the virus — protecting yourself and others. Ways to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Coughing or sneezing into your elbow keeps the virus off your hands so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. Regularly clean surfaces that get touched frequently. --- Section Separator --- Auckland Wellington Canterbury
Home Business, work and money Business Toolkit --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalog and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) Get your QR code poster All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At Alert Level 2, your workplace legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need an alternative system to record workers. There is no requirement at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. You can use these templates at your workplace: Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you're waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and dry your hands poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster (Alert Level 2) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 115 KB] You must wear a face covering [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please don't sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] Wearing a face covering is encouraged (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 85 KB] E whakatenatenahia ana te mau uwhi mata | Wearing a face covering is encouraged (Pae Mataara 1 | Alert Level 1) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 87 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to wear a face covering safely How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to make a face covering Wash and dry your hands (simple) — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalog and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get your QR code poster All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At Alert Level 2, your workplace legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need an alternative system to record workers. There is no requirement at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. You can use these templates at your workplace: Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you're waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and dry your hands poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster (Alert Level 2) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 115 KB] You must wear a face covering [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please don't sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] Wearing a face covering is encouraged (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 85 KB] E whakatenatenahia ana te mau uwhi mata | Wearing a face covering is encouraged (Pae Mataara 1 | Alert Level 1) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 87 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to wear a face covering safely How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to make a face covering Wash and dry your hands (simple) — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Business Employment Training and apprenticeships Financial support Business Toolkit
Home Business, work and money Business Doing business at Alert Level 1 --- Section Separator --- Employers have an important role to support employees and customers to follow public health guidelines. Support New Zealand’s defence against COVID-19 by ensuring that: you display your QR code your employees can stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work. Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must still display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code at Alert Level 1. Help your customers get back into the habit of using the NZ COVID Tracer app by encouraging them to scan in to your workplace. The more we scan, the safer we'll be. Get your QR code poster, and guidance on how to display it Contact tracing at your workplace If your employees are sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms it is important they stay home and get health advice. Ask them to stay home and encourage them to call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 their doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or their iwi health provider. If they do get a test, they should self-isolate until they get a negative result. Workers are entitled to take sick leave if they are sick. If you have a staff member who has run out of sick leave, check whether you’re eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Symptoms of COVID-19 Information about staying home if you are sick COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) You should not knowingly allow your staff to come to work if they have COVID-19 or are required to self-isolate under public health guidelines. If you do, you are likely to be in breach of your duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act. Set up flexible work arrangements so employees can work from home if they need to. If they cannot work from home, your business may be eligible for financial support through the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) Keep up good hygiene practices by encouraging your employees to: wash their hands using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and dry thoroughly cough and sneeze into their elbow keep surfaces clean. How to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Provide handwashing facilities so everyone can regularly wash and dry their hands. Provide hand sanitisers where handwashing facilities are not easily available, for example at entrances to your workplace. Ensure your workplace is cleaned frequently, especially counters, tables, desks, EFTPOS terminals, door handles and other high-touch surfaces. Where possible, avoid sharing tools and personal objects, for example pens or phones. If you need to share items, try and clean or sanitise them between uses, for example with disinfectant wipes. Ask anyone who has cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms not to enter your workplace. There are no requirements for physical distancing at Alert Level 1, but the more space there is between people, the harder it is for COVID-19 and other viruses like the flu to spread. If your workplace can support physical distancing, we encourage you to do so. This could include: rearranging your workplace to support distance between people allowing space between people as they enter or leave your workplace split shifts staggered meal breaks flexible work arrangements, for example being able to work from home. You should discuss any changes with your employees first. --- Section Separator --- Employers have an important role to support employees and customers to follow public health guidelines. Support New Zealand’s defence against COVID-19 by ensuring that: you display your QR code your employees can stay home if they are sick you encourage good hygiene practices at work. --- Section Separator --- Public transport operators, workplaces and businesses legally must still display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code at Alert Level 1. Help your customers get back into the habit of using the NZ COVID Tracer app by encouraging them to scan in to your workplace. The more we scan, the safer we'll be. Get your QR code poster, and guidance on how to display it Contact tracing at your workplace --- Section Separator --- If your employees are sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms it is important they stay home and get health advice. Ask them to stay home and encourage them to call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 their doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or their iwi health provider. If they do get a test, they should self-isolate until they get a negative result. Workers are entitled to take sick leave if they are sick. If you have a staff member who has run out of sick leave, check whether you’re eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Symptoms of COVID-19 Information about staying home if you are sick COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) You should not knowingly allow your staff to come to work if they have COVID-19 or are required to self-isolate under public health guidelines. If you do, you are likely to be in breach of your duties under the Health and Safety at Work Act. --- Section Separator --- Set up flexible work arrangements so employees can work from home if they need to. If they cannot work from home, your business may be eligible for financial support through the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) --- Section Separator --- Keep up good hygiene practices by encouraging your employees to: wash their hands using soap and water for at least 20 seconds, and dry thoroughly cough and sneeze into their elbow keep surfaces clean. How to protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Provide handwashing facilities so everyone can regularly wash and dry their hands. Provide hand sanitisers where handwashing facilities are not easily available, for example at entrances to your workplace. Ensure your workplace is cleaned frequently, especially counters, tables, desks, EFTPOS terminals, door handles and other high-touch surfaces. Where possible, avoid sharing tools and personal objects, for example pens or phones. If you need to share items, try and clean or sanitise them between uses, for example with disinfectant wipes. --- Section Separator --- Ask anyone who has cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms not to enter your workplace. --- Section Separator --- There are no requirements for physical distancing at Alert Level 1, but the more space there is between people, the harder it is for COVID-19 and other viruses like the flu to spread. If your workplace can support physical distancing, we encourage you to do so. This could include: rearranging your workplace to support distance between people allowing space between people as they enter or leave your workplace split shifts staggered meal breaks flexible work arrangements, for example being able to work from home. You should discuss any changes with your employees first. --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster Doing business at Alert Level 3 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 1 Business helpline and resources Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Home Business, work and money Business Doing business at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Alternative ways of working are encouraged where possible. Talk with your staff to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold or flu-like symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Keep groups of customers at least 1 metre apart, or 2 metres for retail businesses. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. Face coverings are strongly encouraged if you are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Businesses and workplaces legally must operate safely. This means: complying with general Alert Level 2 settings displaying an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster and having alternative contact tracing systems Supermarkets, petrol stations and transport stations only need alternative systems to record workers. maintaining hygiene measures, including physical distancing, handwashing and regularly cleaning surfaces, and fulfilling all other health and safety obligations. Business premises can open for staff and customers provided they meet public health requirements. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example their home. Close-contact services can operate if they meet public health measures including robust record keeping, good hygiene practices and minimise contact to the extent possible. If a workplace cannot meet these measures it cannot open its physical premises. All businesses are encouraged to use alternative ways of working if possible. If workers have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend they stay home. At Alert Level 2 businesses can have customers on their premises. Retail businesses, including malls, markets and takeaway shops legally must: keep customers 2 metres apart display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. There is no maximum number of customers allowed in a store, as long as they can keep 2 metres apart at all times. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. Public facilities include: swimming pools and gyms libraries museums. All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. Event facilities include: cinemas, theatres, stadiums, concert venues conference venues casinos. All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. For dine-in customers, restaurants, cafes and bars legally must: have no more than 100 people in a defined space have customers seated keep groups of attendees separated 1 metre apart have a single server per group, where practical display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code have an alternate contact tracing system for customers and workers. While we recommend each table having a single server, each server can cover multiple tables. People can order and collect from a counter, except for on-licence and club-licence premises. Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: personal keep cups in-house reusable coffee cup schemes used by coffee shops. Advice for eating out and getting takeaways safely Advice for going out to a bar or night club A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary. a m other spaces, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: hairdressers home help providers. These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place like: keeping contact tracing registers keeping customers 1 metre apart, including while they’re waiting good hygiene practices disinfecting surfaces in between customers. To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. To enable contact tracing all businesses, workplaces and public transport operators legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location and provide alternate contact tracing systems. Get more information about what your business needs to do Get your QR poster Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe also has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission at work. All businesses can operate if they can do so safely. Alternative ways of working are encouraged where possible. Talk with your staff to identify risks and ways to manage them. Ask everyone — workers, contractors and customers — with cold or flu-like symptoms to stay away from your premises. Keep workers 1 metre apart and customers in retail businesses 2 metres apart. Keep groups of customers at least 1 metre apart, or 2 metres for retail businesses. Businesses are legally required to display a QR code and provide an alternative contact tracing system. Face coverings are strongly encouraged if you are in close contact with others. Reduce the number of shared surfaces, and regularly disinfect them. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. Wash your hands. --- Section Separator --- Businesses and workplaces legally must operate safely. This means: complying with general Alert Level 2 settings displaying an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster and having alternative contact tracing systems Supermarkets, petrol stations and transport stations only need alternative systems to record workers. maintaining hygiene measures, including physical distancing, handwashing and regularly cleaning surfaces, and fulfilling all other health and safety obligations. Business premises can open for staff and customers provided they meet public health requirements. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example their home. Close-contact services can operate if they meet public health measures including robust record keeping, good hygiene practices and minimise contact to the extent possible. If a workplace cannot meet these measures it cannot open its physical premises. All businesses are encouraged to use alternative ways of working if possible. If workers have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend they stay home. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 businesses can have customers on their premises. Retail businesses, including malls, markets and takeaway shops legally must: keep customers 2 metres apart display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code. There is no maximum number of customers allowed in a store, as long as they can keep 2 metres apart at all times. Services can also be provided on customers’ premises, for example, cleaning and home help. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. Public facilities include: swimming pools and gyms libraries museums. All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. Event facilities include: cinemas, theatres, stadiums, concert venues conference venues casinos. All businesses legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. For dine-in customers, restaurants, cafes and bars legally must: have no more than 100 people in a defined space have customers seated keep groups of attendees separated 1 metre apart have a single server per group, where practical display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code have an alternate contact tracing system for customers and workers. While we recommend each table having a single server, each server can cover multiple tables. People can order and collect from a counter, except for on-licence and club-licence premises. Each business can decide if they will allow customers to use reusable cups and containers. If they allow it, we recommend managing food safety risks and adhering to food safety requirements. This applies to all reusable containers, including: personal keep cups in-house reusable coffee cup schemes used by coffee shops. Advice for eating out and getting takeaways safely Advice for going out to a bar or night club A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary. a m other spaces, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). For some businesses, close personal contact is required to deliver a service. This includes: hairdressers home help providers. These businesses can operate if they have public health measures in place like: keeping contact tracing registers keeping customers 1 metre apart, including while they’re waiting good hygiene practices disinfecting surfaces in between customers. --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Contact tracing helps us do that. To enable contact tracing all businesses, workplaces and public transport operators legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location and provide alternate contact tracing systems. Get more information about what your business needs to do Get your QR poster --- Section Separator --- Business.govt.nz has practical advice on different Alert Level restrictions and answers to common questions. Workplace operations at COVID-19 Alert Levels (external link) WorkSafe also has guidance to help you ensure your business can operate safely, including sector-specific guidance. Your COVID-19 safety plan — what you need to think about (external link) The Public Service Commission has detailed guidelines for State services. State services guidelines during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing at your workplace Get your QR code poster Doing business at Alert Level 3 Doing business at Alert Level 2 Doing business at Alert Level 1 Business helpline and resources Help finding new employees Financial support for business
Find out what financial support you could access. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who cannot return home and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support. Information to help you access or pay for accommodation. --- Section Separator --- Find out what financial support you could access. Because of COVID-19, financial pressure will be a reality for many. Help is available if you’re experiencing financial distress. Help is available for eligible foreign nationals who cannot return home and are experiencing serious financial hardship due to COVID-19. Financial support schemes to help businesses and their employees in times of difficulty, to recover from the effects of COVID-19. Community groups, sports clubs and recreational clubs can apply for financial support. Information to help you access or pay for accommodation.
Home Business, work and money Financial support Financial support for communities and clubs --- Section Separator --- Funding is available for projects that support ethnic communities in New Zealand to stay connected and resilient. The priorities for the fund are: alternative ways for ethnic communities to stay socially connected community employment initiatives community resilience and recovery. Ethnic communities include migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: African Asian Continental European Latin American Middle Eastern. Apply for funding by filling in an application form from the Office of Ethnic Communities. You’ll need to show how your project or activities support the purpose of the fund. You can apply more than once in a year. How to apply for the Ethnic Communities Development Fund and examples of projects (external link) Advice is available on how to write a successful application for funding and contact details for community advisors who can help you. Get help with your application (external link) Videos in different languages explaining the Ethnic Communities Development Fund (external link) The Community Capability and Resilience Fund (CCRF) is available to community groups for initiatives that support the rebuild and recovery from COVID-19. The CCRF builds on the success of the Community Awareness and Preparedness Grant Fund (CAP Fund), which provided immediate support to communities during the COVID-19 lockdown. The fund will be targeted towards initiatives that support priority groups, which include: Māori Pacific ethnic migrant communities culturally and linguistically diverse groups. More information, including the application form, is available on the Ministry of Social Development website. Community Capability and Resilience Fund (external link) --- Section Separator --- Funding is available for projects that support ethnic communities in New Zealand to stay connected and resilient. The priorities for the fund are: alternative ways for ethnic communities to stay socially connected community employment initiatives community resilience and recovery. Ethnic communities include migrants, former refugees, long-term settlers and those born in New Zealand who identify their ethnicity as: African Asian Continental European Latin American Middle Eastern. Apply for funding by filling in an application form from the Office of Ethnic Communities. You’ll need to show how your project or activities support the purpose of the fund. You can apply more than once in a year. How to apply for the Ethnic Communities Development Fund and examples of projects (external link) Advice is available on how to write a successful application for funding and contact details for community advisors who can help you. Get help with your application (external link) Videos in different languages explaining the Ethnic Communities Development Fund (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Community Capability and Resilience Fund (CCRF) is available to community groups for initiatives that support the rebuild and recovery from COVID-19. The CCRF builds on the success of the Community Awareness and Preparedness Grant Fund (CAP Fund), which provided immediate support to communities during the COVID-19 lockdown. The fund will be targeted towards initiatives that support priority groups, which include: Māori Pacific ethnic migrant communities culturally and linguistically diverse groups. More information, including the application form, is available on the Ministry of Social Development website. Community Capability and Resilience Fund (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for individuals and whānau Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ Financial support for businesses Financial support for communities and clubs If you need help with accommodation
Home Business, work and money Financial support Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances such as: your work status, for example, employer your situation, for example your business is unable to operate if your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool If your employees have been told by a health official to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. You can also apply if you are self-employed or a sole trader. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. You can re-apply after this time if your employees still qualify. If your employees work in health, disability or aged-care facilities or services and they have COVID-19 symptoms, you can tell them to self-isolate while they wait to get a test or they are waiting for their test results. They will still be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, who is eligible and how to apply (external link) They must have been told to self-isolate by a health official such as: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate, for example a DHB Public Health Unit a medical practitioner, for example a doctor or GP a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process their employer — if they are a healthcare, disability or aged-care worker — following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. Wage subsidies were available to support workers who were financially impacted by COVID-19. Three schemes were available: Wage Subsidy Scheme Wage Subsidy Extension Resurgence Wage Subsidy Your employer can no longer apply for any of the wage subsidies. Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) (external link) Your small or medium-sized business may be eligible for a Business Finance Guarantee Scheme loan. These loans can support operating cashflow and capital assets and projects related to, responding to or for recovering from the impacts of COVID-19. Participating lenders can provide to eligible businesses: new loans increased limits to existing loans revolving credit facilities. Participating banks and non-banks, for example building societies, can lend outside of their normal lending criteria. If you borrow from a bank, you could borrow up to $5 million for a term of up to 5 years. If you borrow from a non-bank, you could borrow up to $3 million for a term of up to 5 years. The scheme is supported by the Government, which takes up to 80% of the scheme loan’s default risk. No personal guarantee is required. Participating banks and non-banks make all lending decisions. You must still pay the loan back, with interest, as you would usually. Find out if your business is eligible, and how to apply (external link) Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: greater flexibility for taxpayers in respect of statutory tax deadlines changes to the tax loss continuity rules a tax loss carry-back scheme measures to support commercial tenants and landlords further business consultancy support. Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) Organisations and small-to-medium businesses, including sole traders and the self-employed, may be eligible for a one-off loan with a term of 5 years if they have been adversely affected by COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme provides assistance to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. The maximum amount that can be borrowed is $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee and only one amount can be drawn down. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within 2 years. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Applications are open until 31 December 2023. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) Support will be available to employers of first and second year apprentices in a Tertiary Education Commission-approved New Zealand Apprenticeship or Managed Apprenticeship programme. The amount that can be claimed will vary depending on when an apprentice started their training programme and when they reach 24 months. Employers can claim: $1,000 a month for eligible apprentices in the first 12 months of their training programme $500 a month in the second 12 months of their training programme. Funding will be available until April 2022. Employers are required to top up the funding they receive to ensure their apprentices receive at least the minimum or training wage they are legally entitled to. Apprenticeship Boost Initiative (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances such as: your work status, for example, employer your situation, for example your business is unable to operate if your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- If your employees have been told by a health official to self-isolate and they cannot work from home, you can can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme for them. You can also apply if you are self-employed or a sole trader. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. You can re-apply after this time if your employees still qualify. If your employees work in health, disability or aged-care facilities or services and they have COVID-19 symptoms, you can tell them to self-isolate while they wait to get a test or they are waiting for their test results. They will still be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, who is eligible and how to apply (external link) They must have been told to self-isolate by a health official such as: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate, for example a DHB Public Health Unit a medical practitioner, for example a doctor or GP a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process their employer — if they are a healthcare, disability or aged-care worker — following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- Wage subsidies were available to support workers who were financially impacted by COVID-19. Three schemes were available: Wage Subsidy Scheme Wage Subsidy Extension Resurgence Wage Subsidy Your employer can no longer apply for any of the wage subsidies. Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Your small or medium-sized business may be eligible for a Business Finance Guarantee Scheme loan. These loans can support operating cashflow and capital assets and projects related to, responding to or for recovering from the impacts of COVID-19. Participating lenders can provide to eligible businesses: new loans increased limits to existing loans revolving credit facilities. Participating banks and non-banks, for example building societies, can lend outside of their normal lending criteria. If you borrow from a bank, you could borrow up to $5 million for a term of up to 5 years. If you borrow from a non-bank, you could borrow up to $3 million for a term of up to 5 years. The scheme is supported by the Government, which takes up to 80% of the scheme loan’s default risk. No personal guarantee is required. Participating banks and non-banks make all lending decisions. You must still pay the loan back, with interest, as you would usually. Find out if your business is eligible, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Inland Revenue has information on a range of measures to help businesses as they recover. These include: greater flexibility for taxpayers in respect of statutory tax deadlines changes to the tax loss continuity rules a tax loss carry-back scheme measures to support commercial tenants and landlords further business consultancy support. Business cash flow and tax relief measures (external link) --- Section Separator --- Organisations and small-to-medium businesses, including sole traders and the self-employed, may be eligible for a one-off loan with a term of 5 years if they have been adversely affected by COVID-19. The Small Business Cashflow Loan Scheme provides assistance to firms employing 50 or fewer full-time equivalent employees. The maximum amount that can be borrowed is $10,000 plus $1,800 per full-time-equivalent employee and only one amount can be drawn down. Loans will be interest-free if they’re paid back within 2 years. The interest rate will be 3% for a maximum term of 5 years. Repayments are not required for the first 2 years. Applications are open until 31 December 2023. Apply for the Small Business Cash Flow Loan (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Companies Office offers relief for companies and other entities facing difficulties in complying with their statutory obligations, or obligations under their constitutions or rules, as they recover from the impacts of COVID-19. The COVID-19 Business Debt Hibernation scheme allows businesses to place their existing debts on hold for up to 7 months to help them start trading normally again. Information on how you can access the insolvency relief and the requirements that you’ll need to meet is available on the Companies Office website. More information about insolvency relief for businesses (external link) --- Section Separator --- Support will be available to employers of first and second year apprentices in a Tertiary Education Commission-approved New Zealand Apprenticeship or Managed Apprenticeship programme. The amount that can be claimed will vary depending on when an apprentice started their training programme and when they reach 24 months. Employers can claim: $1,000 a month for eligible apprentices in the first 12 months of their training programme $500 a month in the second 12 months of their training programme. Funding will be available until April 2022. Employers are required to top up the funding they receive to ensure their apprentices receive at least the minimum or training wage they are legally entitled to. Apprenticeship Boost Initiative (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for individuals and whānau Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ Financial support for businesses Financial support for communities and clubs If you need help with accommodation
Home Business, work and money Financial support Financial support for individuals and whānau --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: your work status, for example job loss due to COVID-19 your situation, for example your business is unable to operate whether your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent or mortgage, board, emergency housing, moving house repairs or replacing appliances emergency dental treatment emergency medical treatment water tank refill. Financial support, eligibility criteria and how to apply at the Work at Income website (external link) You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you're worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. There are a range of options available to help you through this time. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with tips, guides and tools support online or you can email office@sorted.org.nz Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you're worried about the costs of your power bills, talk to your retailer about other options such as moving to a more affordable plan. If you're vulnerable, in financial hardship or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) If you have been told by a health official to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. If you work in health, disability or aged-care facilities or services and you have COVID-19 symptoms, your employer can tell you to self-isolate while you wait to get a test or you are waiting for your test results. You will still be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, who is eligible and how employers can apply (external link) You must have been told to self-isolate by a health official such as: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate, for example a DHB Public Health Unit a medical practitioner, for example a doctor or GP a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process your employer — if you are a healthcare, disability or aged-care worker — following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. Wage subsidies were available to support workers who were financially impacted by COVID-19. Three schemes were available: Wage Subsidy Scheme Wage Subsidy Extension Resurgence Wage Subsidy Your employer can no longer apply for any of the wage subsidies. Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) As the impact of COVID-19 increases, experiencing job loss could be a reality for many. If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) You could apply for the COVID-19 Income Relief Payment before 14 November 2020. It was to help you if you lost your job from 1 March 2020 to 30 October 2020 due to COVID-19. More information about the Income Relief Payment (external link) If you're renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Get help with housing costs from Work and Income (external link) There was a freeze on rent increases which meant landlords could not increase rent for their rental properties. The freeze on rent increases ended on 25 September 2020. Information for landlords and tenants at the Tenancy Services website (external link) New Zealand’s retail banks are able to defer repayments for some mortgages until 31 March 2021. This applies to: residential mortgages agriculture loans, and SME loans. You have to be financially affected by COVID-19. These loans will not be viewed as being defaulted. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you may be able to defer principal and interest payments on your loan. Banks and customers have flexibility over the term of any deferral. However, the Reserve Bank’s  concessionary loan guidance will expire on 31 March 2021. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. Interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess each customer that asks for a deferral. The Reserve Bank’s guidance is that lenders should only approve a deferral if: there’s a need for it there’s a benefit to the borrower, and the lender thinks there’s a reasonable chance of that customer resuming payments when the deferral period ends. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what financial help may be available to you. The tool will take you, step by step, through a series of questions to understand your personal circumstances: your work status, for example job loss due to COVID-19 your situation, for example your business is unable to operate whether your workplace has reduced business and revenue. The tool will then tell you what financial help and support you can access, and where you can apply or find more information. Use the COVID-19 financial support tool --- Section Separator --- If you’ve lost your job or had your hours reduced you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent or mortgage, board, emergency housing, moving house repairs or replacing appliances emergency dental treatment emergency medical treatment water tank refill. Financial support, eligibility criteria and how to apply at the Work at Income website (external link) You can also call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . If you're worried about your ability to finance existing loans as a result of COVID-19 you should contact your bank or finance company as soon as you can. Banks and other lenders will work with customers who are struggling financially. Borrowers have a legal right to ask for changes to their repayments. There are a range of options available to help you through this time. The government-funded services Sorted and MoneyTalks can help with budgeting or other financial guidance. Sorted can help with tips, guides and tools support online or you can email office@sorted.org.nz Read more information on the Sorted website (external link) You can also talk to financial mentors at MoneyTalks. Call 0800 345 123 , text 4029 or email help@moneytalks.co.nz Read more on the MoneyTalks website (external link) If you're worried about the costs of your power bills, talk to your retailer about other options such as moving to a more affordable plan. If you're vulnerable, in financial hardship or medically dependent, you should tell your retailer. Electricity Authority advice to save on power bills (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have been told by a health official to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. If you work in health, disability or aged-care facilities or services and you have COVID-19 symptoms, your employer can tell you to self-isolate while you wait to get a test or you are waiting for your test results. You will still be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, who is eligible and how employers can apply (external link) You must have been told to self-isolate by a health official such as: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate, for example a DHB Public Health Unit a medical practitioner, for example a doctor or GP a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process your employer — if you are a healthcare, disability or aged-care worker — following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- Wage subsidies were available to support workers who were financially impacted by COVID-19. Three schemes were available: Wage Subsidy Scheme Wage Subsidy Extension Resurgence Wage Subsidy Your employer can no longer apply for any of the wage subsidies. Information on the Wage Subsidy Scheme (external link) Information on the Wage Subsidy Extension (external link) Information on the Resurgence Wage Subsidy (external link) --- Section Separator --- As the impact of COVID-19 increases, experiencing job loss could be a reality for many. If you’ve lost your job or you run a business and are faced with laying off your employees, there may be support options available to you. Work and Income offer a range of information and support to employees who are made redundant. Find out more on the Work and Income website (external link) Work and Income has also information for employers who are considering redundancies. Read details on the Work and Income website (external link) You could apply for the COVID-19 Income Relief Payment before 14 November 2020. It was to help you if you lost your job from 1 March 2020 to 30 October 2020 due to COVID-19. More information about the Income Relief Payment (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you're renting and are struggling to pay your rent, you may be eligible for support to help you stay in your rental property. Get help with housing costs from Work and Income (external link) There was a freeze on rent increases which meant landlords could not increase rent for their rental properties. The freeze on rent increases ended on 25 September 2020. Information for landlords and tenants at the Tenancy Services website (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s retail banks are able to defer repayments for some mortgages until 31 March 2021. This applies to: residential mortgages agriculture loans, and SME loans. You have to be financially affected by COVID-19. These loans will not be viewed as being defaulted. If you get a mortgage repayment deferral from your bank you may be able to defer principal and interest payments on your loan. Banks and customers have flexibility over the term of any deferral. However, the Reserve Bank’s  concessionary loan guidance will expire on 31 March 2021. This package is in addition to what banks are already doing individually to help affected customers. Interest on these loans will still increase, and deferred interest will be added to the principal amount of the loan. Banks will assess each customer that asks for a deferral. The Reserve Bank’s guidance is that lenders should only approve a deferral if: there’s a need for it there’s a benefit to the borrower, and the lender thinks there’s a reasonable chance of that customer resuming payments when the deferral period ends. Banks will have different approaches to how they manage the process for customers to opt into a mortgage deferral. Those details, including eligibility criteria, will be available on bank websites. Customers should contact their bank for further details or queries about the scheme. --- Section Separator --- All New Zealand citizens and permanent residents living in Australia, who meet the Australian Government’s eligibility criteria, will now be able to access up to AUD$20,000 of their Australian superannuation. How to apply for payment from your Australian superannuation (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for individuals and whānau Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ Financial support for businesses Financial support for communities and clubs If you need help with accommodation
Home Business, work and money Financial support Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ --- Section Separator --- If you have a temporary visa and cannot support yourself or return home due to COVID-19, you may be able to get an Emergency Benefit. The Emergency Benefit is a weekly payment to help with your basic living costs while you arrange to get home as soon as you can. You may be able to get the Emergency Benefit if you: have a current temporary New Zealand visa that is not sponsored, for example a visitor visa, student visa or work visa are in financial hardship with no other means of support — money to buy a flight home does not count as support either: are arranging to return home as soon as you can, or cannot get home because of COVID-19 travel restrictions but will do so as soon as flights are available are arranging to return home as soon as you can, or cannot get home because of COVID-19 travel restrictions but will do so as soon as flights are available are taking all reasonable steps to find other means of support, including looking for work; consular assistance; or support from family, friends and organisations in NZ or overseas have a valid passport have a New Zealand bank account have an Inland Revenue (IRD) number. You can apply for the Emergency Benefit from 1 December 2020 to 28 February 2021. Find out if you can get the Emergency Benefit, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have a temporary visa and cannot support yourself or return home due to COVID-19, you may be able to get an Emergency Benefit. The Emergency Benefit is a weekly payment to help with your basic living costs while you arrange to get home as soon as you can. You may be able to get the Emergency Benefit if you: have a current temporary New Zealand visa that is not sponsored, for example a visitor visa, student visa or work visa are in financial hardship with no other means of support — money to buy a flight home does not count as support either: are arranging to return home as soon as you can, or cannot get home because of COVID-19 travel restrictions but will do so as soon as flights are available are arranging to return home as soon as you can, or cannot get home because of COVID-19 travel restrictions but will do so as soon as flights are available are taking all reasonable steps to find other means of support, including looking for work; consular assistance; or support from family, friends and organisations in NZ or overseas have a valid passport have a New Zealand bank account have an Inland Revenue (IRD) number. You can apply for the Emergency Benefit from 1 December 2020 to 28 February 2021. Find out if you can get the Emergency Benefit, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for individuals and whānau Financial support for foreign nationals stranded in NZ Financial support for businesses Financial support for communities and clubs If you need help with accommodation
Home Everyday life Bars and night clubs --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, bars and night clubs can have as many people on their premises as they want. There is no requirement for dining-in customers to be seated, separated and have a single server. Bars and night clubs legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Bars and night clubs can open at Alert Level 2, with 100 people per defined space. 1 metre physical distancing is required, except for friends and whānau. Tables will be 1 metre away from other groups. Bars and night clubs have been shown to be places where COVID-19 can spread easily, so it’s important to follow the requirements, even when you’ve had a few drinks. You should not go to a bar or night club if you: have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. If you go to a bar or night club, follow the 3 S’s: Stay seated at your table unless using the bathroom, paying or departing. This means no dancefloors or standing around tables. Your table will be set up at least 1 metre apart from other groups. Make sure you keep 1 metre physical distance throughout the night from other groups and people you don’t know. Each group will have only 1 server, where practical. Make all your orders through your server and do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. You can play pool and use gaming machines provided they are 1 metre apart from each other. You can not eat or drink while playing pool. When playing, make sure you keep 1 metre apart from other groups. We recommend you sign in to a bar or night club with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalog and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, bars and night clubs can have as many people on their premises as they want. There is no requirement for dining-in customers to be seated, separated and have a single server. Bars and night clubs legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- Bars and night clubs can open at Alert Level 2, with 100 people per defined space. 1 metre physical distancing is required, except for friends and whānau. Tables will be 1 metre away from other groups. Bars and night clubs have been shown to be places where COVID-19 can spread easily, so it’s important to follow the requirements, even when you’ve had a few drinks. You should not go to a bar or night club if you: have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. If you go to a bar or night club, follow the 3 S’s: Stay seated at your table unless using the bathroom, paying or departing. This means no dancefloors or standing around tables. Your table will be set up at least 1 metre apart from other groups. Make sure you keep 1 metre physical distance throughout the night from other groups and people you don’t know. Each group will have only 1 server, where practical. Make all your orders through your server and do not go up to the bar to order food or drinks. You can play pool and use gaming machines provided they are 1 metre apart from each other. You can not eat or drink while playing pool. When playing, make sure you keep 1 metre apart from other groups. We recommend you sign in to a bar or night club with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. --- Section Separator --- A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalog and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Pacific Peoples Support your community Make summer unstoppable Gatherings and events Funerals & tangihanga Religious communities Exercising safely Eating out and getting takeaways safely Bars and night clubs Life at home Shopping Parents, caregivers, and whānau
Home Everyday life Eating out and getting takeaways safely --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, cafes, restaurants and bars can have as many people on their premises as they want. There is no requirement for dining-in customers to be seated, separated and have a single server. Cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants and bars can open and have customers on their premises. They legally must meet requirements to keep their customers safe. Delivery, drive-through or contactless pick-up may still be available. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home. Keep physical distance from people you do not know. We encourage wearing a face covering. Follow the establishment's safety measures. Wash your hands when you get home. The 3 S's will be in place if you're dining in. Seated — customers legally must be seated. Separated — keep at least 1 metre apart from other groups. Single server — each group will have only 1 server, where practical. Advice for going out to a bar or night club You can order and collect food from the counter in cafes or fast food restaurants that do not hold an on-licence or club licence. If you’re dining in, once you have ordered or collected your food, you must return to your seat. You must stay seated unless you’re using the bathroom or paying for your meal. On-licensed and club-licensed premises must continue to adhere to the 3 S's at all times, with a requirement to use table service. Food businesses can open at Alert Level 3, but only for takeaway, delivery or drive through. If you are picking up food in person, make sure you do this as safely as possible. You won't be allowed to enter the store, and need to maintain a 2 metre distance from others. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. Do not go out to get takeaways if you're sick with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. You must self-isolate at home and ask someone else to pick food up or get it delivered. Order ahead — online or over the phone. We recommend food outlets not accept orders made at the store. Only arrive to pick up your food when it's ready, to avoid waiting around. Send only 1 person from your bubble. Pay online, or use a contactless payment method, like payWave, PayPass or Apple Pay. If you're using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, do not touch your face until you have thoroughly washed and dried your hands. If the business allows you to use reusable containers like personal keep cups or has an in-house reusable coffee cup scheme, make sure to wipe the cup before and after you use it. Do not wait with people in a crowd. You need to maintain a 2 metre distance from anyone not in your bubble, even if you're waiting in a queue. Be respectful to the staff — they may be dealing with high volumes. Get it and go — make your visit as quick as possible. Wash and dry your hands thoroughly before eating. Enjoy! --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, cafes, restaurants and bars can have as many people on their premises as they want. There is no requirement for dining-in customers to be seated, separated and have a single server. Cafes, restaurants and bars legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 cafes, restaurants and bars can open and have customers on their premises. They legally must meet requirements to keep their customers safe. Delivery, drive-through or contactless pick-up may still be available. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home. Keep physical distance from people you do not know. We encourage wearing a face covering. Follow the establishment's safety measures. Wash your hands when you get home. The 3 S's will be in place if you're dining in. Seated — customers legally must be seated. Separated — keep at least 1 metre apart from other groups. Single server — each group will have only 1 server, where practical. Advice for going out to a bar or night club You can order and collect food from the counter in cafes or fast food restaurants that do not hold an on-licence or club licence. If you’re dining in, once you have ordered or collected your food, you must return to your seat. You must stay seated unless you’re using the bathroom or paying for your meal. On-licensed and club-licensed premises must continue to adhere to the 3 S's at all times, with a requirement to use table service. --- Section Separator --- Food businesses can open at Alert Level 3, but only for takeaway, delivery or drive through. If you are picking up food in person, make sure you do this as safely as possible. You won't be allowed to enter the store, and need to maintain a 2 metre distance from others. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. Do not go out to get takeaways if you're sick with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. You must self-isolate at home and ask someone else to pick food up or get it delivered. Order ahead — online or over the phone. We recommend food outlets not accept orders made at the store. Only arrive to pick up your food when it's ready, to avoid waiting around. Send only 1 person from your bubble. Pay online, or use a contactless payment method, like payWave, PayPass or Apple Pay. If you're using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, do not touch your face until you have thoroughly washed and dried your hands. If the business allows you to use reusable containers like personal keep cups or has an in-house reusable coffee cup scheme, make sure to wipe the cup before and after you use it. Do not wait with people in a crowd. You need to maintain a 2 metre distance from anyone not in your bubble, even if you're waiting in a queue. Be respectful to the staff — they may be dealing with high volumes. Get it and go — make your visit as quick as possible. Wash and dry your hands thoroughly before eating. Enjoy! --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Pacific Peoples Support your community Make summer unstoppable Gatherings and events Funerals & tangihanga Religious communities Exercising safely Eating out and getting takeaways safely Bars and night clubs Life at home Shopping Parents, caregivers, and whānau
Home Everyday life Gatherings and events --- Section Separator --- Do not go to any gatherings or attend public events if you: have COVID-19 symptoms, or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a social gathering or event or enter a public facility at Alert Level 1. Workplaces and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You can also print off QR codes for private events like social gatherings at your home. This isn’t mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Social gatherings can go ahead at Alert Level 2 with up to 100 people in a defined space. You can have guests over to your home, but the 100 person limit applies. This includes people who usually live in your house. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the 100 person limit. Social gatherings include: having guests over to your home family events weddings funerals and tangihanga religious services community club and sport activities private functions like a birthday party or stag do. Funeral and tangihanga requirements Religious community advice Play it safe — keep surfaces clean, wash your hands and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. The person organising the gathering legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. At a social gathering you do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. If you have hired a venue just for a gathering then the rules on gatherings apply. If you’re a business or service, then the rules for businesses and hospitality apply. For example, eating dinner with friends at a restaurant. Public facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. If you go to a public facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know, where possible — if you cannot, we encourage wearing a face covering. Public facilities include: swimming pools and gyms libraries, and museums. We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. How to do business safely at Alert Level 2 Event facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. If you go to an event facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know, where possible — if you cannot, we encourage wearing a face covering. Event facilities include: cinemas, theatres, stadiums, concert venues conference venues casinos. We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). In the first instance, please contact the event organiser. They will likely need some time to determine their process and obligations for any refunds, payment to suppliers etc. Please be patient as they work through the process to meet any obligations they may have. If you believe you have observed behaviour that's not appropriate, and you're certain the individuals concerned are not following Alert Level requirements, you can report it. Report a breach online Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalog and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Do not go to any gatherings or attend public events if you: have COVID-19 symptoms, or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. --- Section Separator --- There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a social gathering or event or enter a public facility at Alert Level 1. Workplaces and businesses legally must display a QR code poster to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. You can also print off QR codes for private events like social gatherings at your home. This isn’t mandatory, but we encourage you to do so. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- Social gatherings can go ahead at Alert Level 2 with up to 100 people in a defined space. You can have guests over to your home, but the 100 person limit applies. This includes people who usually live in your house. Workers providing services to a social gathering are not included in the 100 person limit. Social gatherings include: having guests over to your home family events weddings funerals and tangihanga religious services community club and sport activities private functions like a birthday party or stag do. Funeral and tangihanga requirements Religious community advice Play it safe — keep surfaces clean, wash your hands and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face covering. The person organising the gathering legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. At a social gathering you do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. If you have hired a venue just for a gathering then the rules on gatherings apply. If you’re a business or service, then the rules for businesses and hospitality apply. For example, eating dinner with friends at a restaurant. --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. If people can safely maintain 1 metre physical distance, there is no limit on how many people may safely be inside. Public facilities need to assess how many people may safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. If you go to a public facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know, where possible — if you cannot, we encourage wearing a face covering. Public facilities include: swimming pools and gyms libraries, and museums. We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. How to do business safely at Alert Level 2 --- Section Separator --- Event facilities can operate at Alert Level 2. Event facilities can have up to 100 people within any defined space. They also need to assess how many people can safely be inside the premises and still maintain 1 metre physical distancing. This could mean the facility needs to have fewer than 100 people in a defined space. If you go to an event facility, you legally must keep 1 metre physical distance from people you do not know, where possible — if you cannot, we encourage wearing a face covering. Event facilities include: cinemas, theatres, stadiums, concert venues conference venues casinos. We recommend you sign in to a venue with either: the NZ COVID Tracer app and QR codes, or an alternative contact tracing system. All businesses are legally required to display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each business location and also legally must have an alternative contact tracing system. --- Section Separator --- A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). --- Section Separator --- In the first instance, please contact the event organiser. They will likely need some time to determine their process and obligations for any refunds, payment to suppliers etc. Please be patient as they work through the process to meet any obligations they may have. --- Section Separator --- If you believe you have observed behaviour that's not appropriate, and you're certain the individuals concerned are not following Alert Level requirements, you can report it. Report a breach online --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalog and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Pacific Peoples Support your community Make summer unstoppable Gatherings and events Funerals & tangihanga Religious communities Exercising safely Eating out and getting takeaways safely Bars and night clubs Life at home Shopping Parents, caregivers, and whānau
Home Everyday life Information for Māori You might be interested in: --- Section Separator --- Iwi, hapū and Māori organisations have led decision-making in our communities to support and ensure whānau are safe and protected from any risk of COVID-19 transmission. This has included adjusting tikanga and cultural practices such as suspending harirū and hongi, kissing and hugging to maintain physical distance, and using tools such as video conferencing to support hui, tangihanga and wānanga. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 whānau and friends can connect, but restrictions are still in place to manage the risk and spread of COVID-19. The general guidance for no physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place — for those who don’t live together and aren’t whānau or close friends. Maintain physical distancing, including harirū and hongi Gatherings and events Funerals and tangihanga These guidelines were developed to clarify public health measures and support marae to make their own decisions for the safety and wellbeing of their whānau, hapū, and iwi . We acknowledge that many iwi have already put together COVID-19 response plans for their hapū and marae. Marae should contact their tribal authority in the first instance if they have further questions. Guidance for marae --- Section Separator --- If you're feeling unwell, isolate wherever you are and call Healthline about a free COVID-19 test. By getting a test, you're helping keep your community safe. The NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus. Scan QR codes wherever you are, and turn on Bluetooth tracing. Washing your hands is 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble.
Home Everyday life Information for Māori Guidance for marae --- Section Separator --- have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, or you need to be in isolation for any reason. Make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, contact a GP or Nurse Practitioner, Māori health provider or freephone Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or 0800 611 116 to get tested for COVID-19. Keep communal areas and frequently touched surfaces clean, such as paepae, areas where kai is prepared and served, bathrooms, tables, chairs and door handles. Make sure handwashing facilities are available and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If people can not maintain physical distance from those they do not know, we encourage wearing a face covering. Wash your hands Clean surfaces Marae should be prepared for changes in Alert Levels. We recommend having a plan in place for how the marae can operate and keep whānau safe during Alert Levels 4, 3 or 2. At Alert Level 4, marae will be closed. At Alert Level 3, marae may open but gatherings will be restricted to 10 people. At Alert Level 2, marae may open but gatherings are restricted 100 people. There are no restrictions on gatherings at marae at Alert Level 1. Hui, tangihanga, hura kōhatu, huringa tau and other gatherings can go ahead. It’s important to stay vigilant, even at Alert Level 1. Kia mataara tātou. Continue to provide appropriate hand washing facilities and make sure attendees keep up good hand washing practices. Keep frequently touched surfaces and objects clean, and make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold or flu symptoms, contact a GP, Māori health provider or freephone Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or 0800 611 116 to get tested for COVID-19. We recommend the organiser of a gathering at a marae record attendees. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer App for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer App QR code poster Marae can open and hold gatherings at Alert Level 2, with up to 100 people in a defined space. A marae can have multiple defined spaces of 100 people, provided there is no contact between them in or around the marae. If marae cannot operate safely at Alert Level 2 they may choose to close. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet Alert Level 2 restrictions. Requirements for tangihangi at Alert Level 2 Requirements for gatherings and events At all gatherings, keep each other safe by maintaining physical distancing of 1 metre. This means using greetings that don’t require physical contact, instead of hongi, harirū, kissing or hugging, with people you don’t live with or who are outside your whānau. How to maintain physical distance Before any gathering, clean all surfaces where kai will be prepared and served including benches, tables and chairs. Use disinfectant and if surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first before disinfecting. Serve kai on plates in individual portions for each person. Do not serve food buffet-style or on a shared table. Make sure people do not share food or drinks, cups, plates or cutlery. The organiser of a gathering at a marae legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. You do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae will need to implement a Health and Safety plan and other measures. The Health and Safety plan must be displayed and communicated to all attendees. Contact your local hauora or Māori health provider for help with health and safety. Marae can take bookings for events such as conferences or business meetings at Alert Level 2. If a business or service hires a marae for an event, Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses apply. Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses If food is served by the marae for any event, hospitality requirements apply. Hospitality requirements at Alert Level 2 A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, people can not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please don't share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, or you need to be in isolation for any reason. --- Section Separator --- Make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, contact a GP or Nurse Practitioner, Māori health provider or freephone Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or 0800 611 116 to get tested for COVID-19. Keep communal areas and frequently touched surfaces clean, such as paepae, areas where kai is prepared and served, bathrooms, tables, chairs and door handles. Make sure handwashing facilities are available and maintain safe physical distancing where possible. If people can not maintain physical distance from those they do not know, we encourage wearing a face covering. Wash your hands Clean surfaces Marae should be prepared for changes in Alert Levels. We recommend having a plan in place for how the marae can operate and keep whānau safe during Alert Levels 4, 3 or 2. At Alert Level 4, marae will be closed. At Alert Level 3, marae may open but gatherings will be restricted to 10 people. At Alert Level 2, marae may open but gatherings are restricted 100 people. --- Section Separator --- There are no restrictions on gatherings at marae at Alert Level 1. Hui, tangihanga, hura kōhatu, huringa tau and other gatherings can go ahead. It’s important to stay vigilant, even at Alert Level 1. Kia mataara tātou. Continue to provide appropriate hand washing facilities and make sure attendees keep up good hand washing practices. Keep frequently touched surfaces and objects clean, and make sure whānau stay home if māuiui. If whānau have cold or flu symptoms, contact a GP, Māori health provider or freephone Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or 0800 611 116 to get tested for COVID-19. We recommend the organiser of a gathering at a marae record attendees. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer App for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer App QR code poster --- Section Separator --- Marae can open and hold gatherings at Alert Level 2, with up to 100 people in a defined space. A marae can have multiple defined spaces of 100 people, provided there is no contact between them in or around the marae. If marae cannot operate safely at Alert Level 2 they may choose to close. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet Alert Level 2 restrictions. Requirements for tangihangi at Alert Level 2 Requirements for gatherings and events At all gatherings, keep each other safe by maintaining physical distancing of 1 metre. This means using greetings that don’t require physical contact, instead of hongi, harirū, kissing or hugging, with people you don’t live with or who are outside your whānau. How to maintain physical distance Before any gathering, clean all surfaces where kai will be prepared and served including benches, tables and chairs. Use disinfectant and if surfaces look visibly dirty, clean them first before disinfecting. Serve kai on plates in individual portions for each person. Do not serve food buffet-style or on a shared table. Make sure people do not share food or drinks, cups, plates or cutlery. The organiser of a gathering at a marae legally must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. You do not need to do this if every person at the gathering knows each other. To play it safe, keep records even if everyone knows each other. Marae can use the official NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Get an NZ COVID Tracer app QR code poster Marae will need to implement a Health and Safety plan and other measures. The Health and Safety plan must be displayed and communicated to all attendees. Contact your local hauora or Māori health provider for help with health and safety. Marae can take bookings for events such as conferences or business meetings at Alert Level 2. If a business or service hires a marae for an event, Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses apply. Alert Level 2 requirements for businesses If food is served by the marae for any event, hospitality requirements apply. Hospitality requirements at Alert Level 2 A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, people can not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. --- Section Separator --- The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please don't share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- Guidance for marae
Home Everyday life Life at home Animal welfare --- Section Separator --- If you’re concerned about an animal’s welfare call the Ministry for Primary Industries (MPI) on 0800 008 333 . If your animals need treatment, contact your own veterinary clinic. If you do not have a regular veterinarian, or yours is not open, you can find nearby clinics on Find-a-Vet. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) If you're self-isolating, you must contact your veterinarian before visiting them or they visit you including for production animals. This applies even if your animal is being presented by someone else. There remains no evidence that domestic animals, pets or livestock can spread COVID-19 and routine testing of animals for COVID-19 is not justified. However, it’s good practice to wash your hands before and after interacting with animals. We recommend people sick with COVID-19 avoid contact with pets and other animals, as they would with people. This is based on international advice. Where there's COVID-19 in a household, we recommend animals are not moved off the property. Travel is allowed for essential personal movement in your area, including for accessing local services and businesses. When travelling to deliver an animal, such as a puppy, you'll need to ensure that safe practices are implemented. For example, ensuring a safe distance between all people involved in transporting and receiving the animal, and practicing good hygiene practices, such as hand washing. You cannot travel to another region to personally deliver an animal as part of a sale or adoption. However, transporting the animal as freight with a commercial pet transport company is available. This will likely be via land transport. Check with commercial providers. Travel to care for your animals, including horses, is allowed. This includes providing your animals with food, water, exercise and any other aspect that you need to provide to meet your responsibilities under the Animal Welfare Act and relevant codes of welfare. If your animals are in another region that's not in your local area, try to get someone else you trust to provide care if possible. If your horses are in other people’s care, like at a stable or graziers, in your local area then you can visit them, with certain guidelines. You can visit your horses to provide them with care and exercise. You must maintain physical distance from others. Riding is allowed, but we recommend doing it safely and as close to home as possible. We recommend not using shared facilities. If your horses are in other people’s care, and are not in your region, then you should avoid visiting them. Whenever you visit or exercise your horses, make sure you practise good hygiene measures and physical distancing. A roster system for horse owners to visit the facility may be 1 measure that could be implemented to meet this requirement and to ensure contact tracing is easily achievable. The facility must record everyone that is working there, and every visitor and contractor who enters. Limit visits to what is necessary. Under Alert Level 3, farming and other primary sector businesses and support services can operate, as long as they can do so safely. Advice for farmers and agriculture businesses at Alert Level 3 (external link) Animal and pet care service businesses can operate at Alert Level 3 if they can meet safe practice requirements and can operate without physical contact with customers. Only workers are allowed on business premises. Advice for businesses operating at Alert Level 3 — WorkSafe (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re concerned about an animal’s welfare call the Ministry for Primary Industries (MPI) on 0800 008 333 . --- Section Separator --- If your animals need treatment, contact your own veterinary clinic. If you do not have a regular veterinarian, or yours is not open, you can find nearby clinics on Find-a-Vet. Find nearby clinics by going to Find-a-Vet (external link) If you're self-isolating, you must contact your veterinarian before visiting them or they visit you including for production animals. This applies even if your animal is being presented by someone else. --- Section Separator --- There remains no evidence that domestic animals, pets or livestock can spread COVID-19 and routine testing of animals for COVID-19 is not justified. However, it’s good practice to wash your hands before and after interacting with animals. We recommend people sick with COVID-19 avoid contact with pets and other animals, as they would with people. This is based on international advice. Where there's COVID-19 in a household, we recommend animals are not moved off the property. --- Section Separator --- Travel is allowed for essential personal movement in your area, including for accessing local services and businesses. When travelling to deliver an animal, such as a puppy, you'll need to ensure that safe practices are implemented. For example, ensuring a safe distance between all people involved in transporting and receiving the animal, and practicing good hygiene practices, such as hand washing. You cannot travel to another region to personally deliver an animal as part of a sale or adoption. However, transporting the animal as freight with a commercial pet transport company is available. This will likely be via land transport. Check with commercial providers. --- Section Separator --- Travel to care for your animals, including horses, is allowed. This includes providing your animals with food, water, exercise and any other aspect that you need to provide to meet your responsibilities under the Animal Welfare Act and relevant codes of welfare. If your animals are in another region that's not in your local area, try to get someone else you trust to provide care if possible. If your horses are in other people’s care, like at a stable or graziers, in your local area then you can visit them, with certain guidelines. You can visit your horses to provide them with care and exercise. You must maintain physical distance from others. Riding is allowed, but we recommend doing it safely and as close to home as possible. We recommend not using shared facilities. If your horses are in other people’s care, and are not in your region, then you should avoid visiting them. Whenever you visit or exercise your horses, make sure you practise good hygiene measures and physical distancing. A roster system for horse owners to visit the facility may be 1 measure that could be implemented to meet this requirement and to ensure contact tracing is easily achievable. The facility must record everyone that is working there, and every visitor and contractor who enters. Limit visits to what is necessary. --- Section Separator --- Under Alert Level 3, farming and other primary sector businesses and support services can operate, as long as they can do so safely. Advice for farmers and agriculture businesses at Alert Level 3 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Animal and pet care service businesses can operate at Alert Level 3 if they can meet safe practice requirements and can operate without physical contact with customers. Only workers are allowed on business premises. Advice for businesses operating at Alert Level 3 — WorkSafe (external link) --- Section Separator --- Waste collection Animal welfare Renters and landlords Homeowners If you need help with accommodation
Home Everyday life Life at home If you need help with accommodation --- Section Separator --- If you need help to access or pay for accommodation during COVID-19, there are several ways to get support. It depends on your situation. If you’re leaving a Managed Isolation Facility and have nowhere to stay, talk to the manager of your Managed Isolation Facility. If you’re a public housing tenant of Kainga Ora or a Community Housing provider, contact your tenancy manager. You can also contact Work and Income: Work and Income website (external link) Call 0800 559 009 Monday to Friday, 7am to 6pm and Saturday, 8am to 1pm. If you’re under 19 call your Youth Service provider if you have one. If you do not have a Youth Service provider call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . Say “youth client” when you call. If you’re in urgent need of housing within the next 7 days and have nowhere else to stay, call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 : Monday to Friday, 7am to 6pm Saturday, 8am to 1pm. Work and Income website (external link) If you’re at risk from family violence and are in immediate danger call 111 . Press 55 to go through to the Police. If you’re not in immediate danger but need help with family violence you can call: Crisisline on 0800 733 843 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week 2Shine on 0508 744 633 , 9am to 11pm, 7 days a week Shakti International on 0800 742 584 if English is your second language. They’re available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- If you need help to access or pay for accommodation during COVID-19, there are several ways to get support. It depends on your situation. --- Section Separator --- If you’re leaving a Managed Isolation Facility and have nowhere to stay, talk to the manager of your Managed Isolation Facility. If you’re a public housing tenant of Kainga Ora or a Community Housing provider, contact your tenancy manager. You can also contact Work and Income: Work and Income website (external link) Call 0800 559 009 Monday to Friday, 7am to 6pm and Saturday, 8am to 1pm. If you’re under 19 call your Youth Service provider if you have one. If you do not have a Youth Service provider call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 . Say “youth client” when you call. If you’re in urgent need of housing within the next 7 days and have nowhere else to stay, call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 : Monday to Friday, 7am to 6pm Saturday, 8am to 1pm. Work and Income website (external link) If you’re at risk from family violence and are in immediate danger call 111 . Press 55 to go through to the Police. If you’re not in immediate danger but need help with family violence you can call: Crisisline on 0800 733 843 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week 2Shine on 0508 744 633 , 9am to 11pm, 7 days a week Shakti International on 0800 742 584 if English is your second language. They’re available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- Waste collection Animal welfare Renters and landlords Homeowners If you need help with accommodation
Home Everyday life Make summer unstoppable This summer will be our first under COVID-19 conditions. It’s important we look after ourselves and our whānau over the festive season and summer holidays. --- Section Separator --- As New Zealanders we cherish our annual summer holidays. We all want an uninterrupted summer — uninterrupted by the weather and uninterrupted by COVID-19. While we cannot control the weather, we can control COVID-19. Here are four simple things we can all do to keep each other safe and make our summer unstoppable. --- Section Separator --- Scanning QR codes with the NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. Scanning QR codes wherever you go is especially important when on holiday because you might not remember all the places you visit. Keep your phone handy to make scanning in quick and easy, especially when shops are crowded over Christmas and New Year. Taking a few seconds to scan means we can quickly let you know when you have visited a place where you may have been exposed to the virus. You can then take steps to protect yourself and your whānau. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. How to keep track of where you’ve been --- Section Separator --- Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you’ve been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing is great for large gatherings and events, like music festivals, when you’re surrounded by people you do not know. Bluetooth tracing does not replace the need to scan NZ COVID Tracer QR codes. You still need to scan QR codes to keep track of where you’ve been. Bluetooth tracing is an added tool — it helps keep track of the people we’ve been near. When you turn on Bluetooth tracing, your privacy is always protected — it cannot share your location, your name or anything else about you. Turn on Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- Do not travel or take part in activities if you’re unwell. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while on you’re on holiday, do not wait until you get home. Call Healthline or your doctor or Nurse Practitioner to see about getting a test. COVID-19 testing services will continue over the Christmas and New Year holiday period. If you’re away from home, you’ll still be able to access tests. By getting a test, you’re helping keep the community safe. Stay home if you’re sick COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often. Use soap. 20 seconds. Then dry. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. Wash your hands --- Section Separator --- Scan QR codes Turn on Bluetooth tracing Stay home if you're sick Wash your hands --- Section Separator --- Many of us will be travelling around New Zealand and going to big events this summer. Shops will be more crowded than usual, and we’ll be going to more social gatherings. Here are some things you can do over our first summer under COVID-19 conditions: Have your phone ready to make scanning QR codes quick and easy. You could pack a summer essentials bag if you’re travelling, with hand sanitiser, face coverings, cleaning products and a booklet for contact tracing. You never know what facilities will be available at the places you’re visiting. Keep some hand sanitiser in your pocket or bag. It’s a convenient way to keep your hands clean when you’re out and about. Shops and events can be very crowded at this time of year, but try and keep your distance from people you do not know. If you’re hosting a gathering for friends and whānau, create a QR code to help your guests keep track of where they’ve been. If you’re hosting a gathering, consider holding your event outdoors. The more space people have, the harder it is for COVID-19 to spread if it is in the community. --- Section Separator --- Get resources to help your business or event make summer unstoppable. The resources include posters, templates, social media tiles and digital banners. Unstoppable summer toolkit
Home Everyday life Pacific Peoples --- Section Separator --- From our hearts to yours, wishing you a merry Christmas. As we take pause and spend time with our loved ones, please keep in mind the four golden rules for staying safe this festive season. Fiji community Christmas message (external link) Cook Islands community Christmas message (external link) Tonga community Christmas message (external link) Samoa community Christmas message (external link) Tuvalu community Christmas message (external link) Tokelau community Christmas message (external link) Kiribati community Christmas message (external link) Niue community Christmas message (external link) View the 12 October video update in 9 Pacific languages (external link) View 31 August video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) View 16 August video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) View 12 August video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) Following the resurgence of COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand and the impact it is having on our Pacific communities, it is essential we consider the information we are receiving. Together with our partners Bright Sunday 4pi, the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Police, SunPix, Tagata Pasifika and Pacific Media Network (PMN), the Ministry for Pacific Peoples (MPP) has put together a half hour special programme focusing on Sela Alo, the General Manager of PMN, and his journey of surviving COVID-19, as well as key messages from Pacific community members and leaders. Watch the half-hour programme (external link) We got your back Aotearoa is a social media campaign that is aimed at reaching our Pacific communities and features some of New Zealand's well-known Pacific people, including: Dame Valerie Adams DNZM Dave Letele (Brown Buttabean) Diamond Langi Faumuina To'aletai David Tua ONZM Patrick Tuipulotu Lesina Nakhid-Schuster. They share messages of encouragement to help protect our people and once again beat and eliminate COVID-19. Watch the video messages (external link) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu Information and advice is available in 10 Pacific languages to support you, your children and young people learning from home. Learning from home (external link) In the battle against COVID-19, Prepare Pacific helps get information out to Pacific communities in Pacific languages. Prepare Pacific is an initiative of Counties Manukau Health, Auckland District Health Board, Waitematā District Health Board, Northland District Health Board and all our essential services who are working around the clock to help our people. Prepare Pacific (external link) If you need a Whānau Ora Family Support Package contact one of our partners. Key contact: Ana Aitcheson Phone number: 0800 366 648 The Fono Facebook (external link) Key contact: Maliena Jones Phone number: 09 826 5427 or 021 845 535 The Village Community Services Trust Facebook (external link) Key contact: John Kiria Phone number: 021 023 77746 Pacific Business Trust is providing free practical business assistance for all Pacific organisations in New Zealand who have been impacted by COVID-19. Find out more about free business assistance (external link) Pasifika Futures are referring Pacific families who need to access a COVID-19 support package to their local Civil Defence or a supporting agency. Call your local provider to see if you are eligible for support (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples Facebook page (external link) Pacific Media Network (external link) Tagata Pasifika (external link) LeVa #CatchYourself (external link) Pasefika Proud (external link) Pasifika Futures (external link) Prepare Pacific (external link) Health Promotion Agency (external link) The Fono (external link) Immigration (external link) Learning from home (external link) Work and Income benefits (external link) Pacific Business Trust (external link) Workplace operations (external link) --- Section Separator --- From our hearts to yours, wishing you a merry Christmas. As we take pause and spend time with our loved ones, please keep in mind the four golden rules for staying safe this festive season. --- Section Separator --- Fiji community Christmas message (external link) Cook Islands community Christmas message (external link) Tonga community Christmas message (external link) Samoa community Christmas message (external link) Tuvalu community Christmas message (external link) Tokelau community Christmas message (external link) Kiribati community Christmas message (external link) Niue community Christmas message (external link) --- Section Separator --- View the 12 October video update in 9 Pacific languages (external link) View 31 August video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) View 16 August video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) View 12 August video update in English and 9 Pacific languages (external link) --- Section Separator --- Following the resurgence of COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand and the impact it is having on our Pacific communities, it is essential we consider the information we are receiving. Together with our partners Bright Sunday 4pi, the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Police, SunPix, Tagata Pasifika and Pacific Media Network (PMN), the Ministry for Pacific Peoples (MPP) has put together a half hour special programme focusing on Sela Alo, the General Manager of PMN, and his journey of surviving COVID-19, as well as key messages from Pacific community members and leaders. Watch the half-hour programme (external link) We got your back Aotearoa is a social media campaign that is aimed at reaching our Pacific communities and features some of New Zealand's well-known Pacific people, including: Dame Valerie Adams DNZM Dave Letele (Brown Buttabean) Diamond Langi Faumuina To'aletai David Tua ONZM Patrick Tuipulotu Lesina Nakhid-Schuster. They share messages of encouragement to help protect our people and once again beat and eliminate COVID-19. Watch the video messages (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu --- Section Separator --- Information and advice is available in 10 Pacific languages to support you, your children and young people learning from home. Learning from home (external link) In the battle against COVID-19, Prepare Pacific helps get information out to Pacific communities in Pacific languages. Prepare Pacific is an initiative of Counties Manukau Health, Auckland District Health Board, Waitematā District Health Board, Northland District Health Board and all our essential services who are working around the clock to help our people. Prepare Pacific (external link) If you need a Whānau Ora Family Support Package contact one of our partners. Key contact: Ana Aitcheson Phone number: 0800 366 648 The Fono Facebook (external link) Key contact: Maliena Jones Phone number: 09 826 5427 or 021 845 535 The Village Community Services Trust Facebook (external link) Key contact: John Kiria Phone number: 021 023 77746 Pacific Business Trust is providing free practical business assistance for all Pacific organisations in New Zealand who have been impacted by COVID-19. Find out more about free business assistance (external link) Pasifika Futures are referring Pacific families who need to access a COVID-19 support package to their local Civil Defence or a supporting agency. Call your local provider to see if you are eligible for support (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples Facebook page (external link) Pacific Media Network (external link) Tagata Pasifika (external link) LeVa #CatchYourself (external link) Pasefika Proud (external link) Pasifika Futures (external link) Prepare Pacific (external link) Health Promotion Agency (external link) The Fono (external link) Immigration (external link) Learning from home (external link) Work and Income benefits (external link) Pacific Business Trust (external link) Workplace operations (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Pacific Peoples Support your community Make summer unstoppable Gatherings and events Funerals & tangihanga Religious communities Exercising safely Eating out and getting takeaways safely Bars and night clubs Life at home Shopping Parents, caregivers, and whānau
Home Everyday life Parents, caregivers, and whānau Education --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, Early Learning Centres, schools and tertiary education facilities are open for all age groups. Following the announcement of a case of community transmission in Auckland, early learning services and schools remain open. Some education providers are operating under different conditions so we recommend you check in with your own provider. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, early learning centres, schools and tertiary education facilities are open for all age groups. If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it legally must close temporarily, if advised by the public health unit, to allow for contact tracing. Children or young people legally must stay home if they: are unwell have COVID-19 symptoms are self-isolating are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Distance learning will be available for any students not able to attend school. Children, young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at school. This is because the risk of infection within the school environment is low. Face coverings All early learning centres and schools are physically open including for years 11 to 13. Distance learning will be available for those who cannot attend school, for example where people are self-isolating. Early learning centres and schools are safe environments for children, young people and staff. Additional public health control measures are in place to prevent the spread of disease and to support contact tracing. Tertiary education facilities are open. Tertiary education is a safe environment for students and staff to return to at Alert Level 2. Tertiary education facilities will implement public health requirements and physical distancing and will provide a safe environment where students can continue their learning. They will maintain distance learning capability for staff and students who need it. Workplace-based learning will follow the rules that apply to the relevant industry. Under Alert Level 3 it will be safe for early learning/education centres and schools to open for children up to and including Year 10, with appropriate public health measures in place. All young people in years 11 to 13 will continue to learn at home. Where possible, we recommend that students remain at home and continue distance learning. Where parents or caregivers need to, they can send their children to school. Schools will be a safe place for children to go to learn if their parents need to return to work, or the children cannot learn at a distance. Home-based early learning services can resume up to the maximum number of licensed children of 4, including the educators’ own children, provided they meet public health requirements. Play centres and playgroups will be closed. Personal protective equipment (PPE) like gloves and masks are not necessary for a school environment. We recommend that children, young people and staff who are at greater risk stay at home. We also recommend any child, young person or staff member who is sick remain at home. Some schools and early learning services may need extra time to get ready to open after we go to Alert Level 3. Schools will look different under Alert Level 3. There will be far fewer students on the grounds, and they will stay within their small groups. The small groups will help to maintain physical distancing. Some teachers will be teaching students at school, while others will support distance learning. For those small number of children attending school, the learning experience will be different to “normal” school. Home Learning TV | Papa Kāinga TV and Mauri Reo, Mauri Ora will support the learning of tamariki and rangatahi at Alert Level 3. Home Learning TV | Papa Kāinga TV will take over TVNZ DUKE's daytime schedule between 9am and 1pm on weekdays, with programmes and lessons for children aged 2 to 11 years. DUKE is available on: Freeview channel 13 Sky and Vodafone TV channel 23 online through the TVNZ website (external link) . (external link) Content will be available for catch up viewing on TVNZ OnDemand. Check the schedule and access lesson plans (external link) Mauri Reo Mauri Ora will air at Alert Level 3. You can watch from 9am to 3pm on weekdays on Te Reo Māori Channel: Sky and Vodafone TV channel 82 Freeview Channel 15. Content will be available for catch up viewing on Māori Television OnDemand (external link) Schedules and previous sessions (external link) Tertiary education will be provided online. Certain small groups can work together at tertiary institutions. Student accommodation will remain open for students who require it. For details please contact your education provider or go to the Ministry of Education website. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers / whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) Additional support is being provided for senior secondary students due to the continuing disruption from the resurgence of COVID-19. The following support and changes apply to students in Auckland in the first instance: Additional places will be available in programmes led by Te Aho o te Kura Pounamu (Te Kura) from Term 4. This will support students most at risk of not achieving their NCEA goals in 2020. In partnership with the Ministry of Education, Te Kura will have extra places in their summer school this year. This is for students who need up to 10 additional credits to attain an NCEA or University Entrance award. Students working towards an NCEA can gain: up to 6 extra Learning Recognition (LR) credits at Level 1 up to 4 extra LR credits at Levels 2 and 3. up to 6 extra Learning Recognition (LR) credits at Level 1 up to 4 extra LR credits at Levels 2 and 3. The credit requirements for certificate endorsements have been reduced by 2 credits. This means students will be awarded a certificate endorsement if they achieve 44 credits at Merit or Excellence level, instead of 46. The changes recognise that students in Auckland lost 13 days of classroom-based learning in August following the resurgence of COVID-19. These measures build on the changes to NCEA and University Entrance that were announced earlier this year. Announcement of changes to NCEA (external link) Announcement of changes to University Entrance (external link) NCEA exams have been delayed to provide students more time to prepare for end of year assessments. External NCEA examinations and New Zealand Scholarship examinations have moved from 6 November to 16 November, allowing another week for teaching, learning and internal assessment in Term 4. The submission date for subjects which require students to submit a portfolio, such as Design and Visual Communication, has moved from from 28 October to 12 November 2020, giving students more time to prepare. The requirement for NZQA verification of Level 1 and 2 Visual Arts portfolios has been waived, allowing students more time to complete their portfolios and teachers more time for marking. Further information from NZQA (external link) If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, Early Learning Centres, schools and tertiary education facilities are open for all age groups. --- Section Separator --- Following the announcement of a case of community transmission in Auckland, early learning services and schools remain open. Some education providers are operating under different conditions so we recommend you check in with your own provider. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, early learning centres, schools and tertiary education facilities are open for all age groups. If an educational facility is connected to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19, it legally must close temporarily, if advised by the public health unit, to allow for contact tracing. Children or young people legally must stay home if they: are unwell have COVID-19 symptoms are self-isolating are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Distance learning will be available for any students not able to attend school. Children, young people and teachers do not need to wear face coverings at school. This is because the risk of infection within the school environment is low. Face coverings All early learning centres and schools are physically open including for years 11 to 13. Distance learning will be available for those who cannot attend school, for example where people are self-isolating. Early learning centres and schools are safe environments for children, young people and staff. Additional public health control measures are in place to prevent the spread of disease and to support contact tracing. Tertiary education facilities are open. Tertiary education is a safe environment for students and staff to return to at Alert Level 2. Tertiary education facilities will implement public health requirements and physical distancing and will provide a safe environment where students can continue their learning. They will maintain distance learning capability for staff and students who need it. Workplace-based learning will follow the rules that apply to the relevant industry. --- Section Separator --- Under Alert Level 3 it will be safe for early learning/education centres and schools to open for children up to and including Year 10, with appropriate public health measures in place. All young people in years 11 to 13 will continue to learn at home. Where possible, we recommend that students remain at home and continue distance learning. Where parents or caregivers need to, they can send their children to school. Schools will be a safe place for children to go to learn if their parents need to return to work, or the children cannot learn at a distance. Home-based early learning services can resume up to the maximum number of licensed children of 4, including the educators’ own children, provided they meet public health requirements. Play centres and playgroups will be closed. Personal protective equipment (PPE) like gloves and masks are not necessary for a school environment. We recommend that children, young people and staff who are at greater risk stay at home. We also recommend any child, young person or staff member who is sick remain at home. Some schools and early learning services may need extra time to get ready to open after we go to Alert Level 3. Schools will look different under Alert Level 3. There will be far fewer students on the grounds, and they will stay within their small groups. The small groups will help to maintain physical distancing. Some teachers will be teaching students at school, while others will support distance learning. For those small number of children attending school, the learning experience will be different to “normal” school. Home Learning TV | Papa Kāinga TV and Mauri Reo, Mauri Ora will support the learning of tamariki and rangatahi at Alert Level 3. Home Learning TV | Papa Kāinga TV will take over TVNZ DUKE's daytime schedule between 9am and 1pm on weekdays, with programmes and lessons for children aged 2 to 11 years. DUKE is available on: Freeview channel 13 Sky and Vodafone TV channel 23 online through the TVNZ website (external link) . (external link) Content will be available for catch up viewing on TVNZ OnDemand. Check the schedule and access lesson plans (external link) Mauri Reo Mauri Ora will air at Alert Level 3. You can watch from 9am to 3pm on weekdays on Te Reo Māori Channel: Sky and Vodafone TV channel 82 Freeview Channel 15. Content will be available for catch up viewing on Māori Television OnDemand (external link) Schedules and previous sessions (external link) Tertiary education will be provided online. Certain small groups can work together at tertiary institutions. Student accommodation will remain open for students who require it. For details please contact your education provider or go to the Ministry of Education website. Ministry of Education advice for tertiary providers / whare wānanga (external link) Ministry of Education advice for tertiary students (external link) --- Section Separator --- Additional support is being provided for senior secondary students due to the continuing disruption from the resurgence of COVID-19. The following support and changes apply to students in Auckland in the first instance: Additional places will be available in programmes led by Te Aho o te Kura Pounamu (Te Kura) from Term 4. This will support students most at risk of not achieving their NCEA goals in 2020. In partnership with the Ministry of Education, Te Kura will have extra places in their summer school this year. This is for students who need up to 10 additional credits to attain an NCEA or University Entrance award. Students working towards an NCEA can gain: up to 6 extra Learning Recognition (LR) credits at Level 1 up to 4 extra LR credits at Levels 2 and 3. up to 6 extra Learning Recognition (LR) credits at Level 1 up to 4 extra LR credits at Levels 2 and 3. The credit requirements for certificate endorsements have been reduced by 2 credits. This means students will be awarded a certificate endorsement if they achieve 44 credits at Merit or Excellence level, instead of 46. The changes recognise that students in Auckland lost 13 days of classroom-based learning in August following the resurgence of COVID-19. These measures build on the changes to NCEA and University Entrance that were announced earlier this year. Announcement of changes to NCEA (external link) Announcement of changes to University Entrance (external link) NCEA exams have been delayed to provide students more time to prepare for end of year assessments. External NCEA examinations and New Zealand Scholarship examinations have moved from 6 November to 16 November, allowing another week for teaching, learning and internal assessment in Term 4. The submission date for subjects which require students to submit a portfolio, such as Design and Visual Communication, has moved from from 28 October to 12 November 2020, giving students more time to prepare. The requirement for NZQA verification of Level 1 and 2 Visual Arts portfolios has been waived, allowing students more time to complete their portfolios and teachers more time for marking. Further information from NZQA (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you’re worried that a child or young person you know is not safe or being cared for, or you know a child who has been separated from their parents or caregivers, contact Oranga Tamariki. Call 0508 326 459 , 24 hours a day, 7 days a week or email contact@ot.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Education Shared custody and childcare Online safety Visiting an Aged Residential Care facility
Home Everyday life Religious communities --- Section Separator --- At different Alert Levels, gatherings may not be able to go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for religious events and ceremonies, and it will also impact a number of other religious practices. There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a religious event or ceremony at Alert Level 1. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at religious events and ceremonies to keep track of attendees. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses Religious buildings can open at Alert Level 2. Up to 100 people can gather in each defined space for religious ceremonies, events and services. A defined space is an area that is partitioned off from other areas by permanent or temporary walls. Faith-based institutions and clubs can operate with defined spaces, with up to 100 people in each area. You will need to prevent mingling between groups in common spaces, for example entrances, exits and toilets. Read more about defined spaces at Alert Level 2 Gatherings legally must: have no more than 100 people in each defined space excluding staff, for example clergy keep attendees who do not know each other 1 metre apart record attendees to ensure contact tracing can be done if necessary — but you don’t need to do this if each person at the gathering knows everyone. If the place of worship is a workplace, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. We recommend that religious and faith-based gatherings follow social gathering rules, unless they’re operating under a club licence to sell alcohol. Then we recommend following hospitality rules. We recommend not participating in any gatherings if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. We recommend following the general guidance for gatherings, including measures such as frequent cleaning, good hygiene, wearing face coverings and physical distancing. More information about gatherings and events at Alert Level 2. At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they’re visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must adhere to the visiting policy of the health facility and follow the relevant infection prevention and control procedures. Halaal butchers may open, and you may enter the store. The shop legally must adhere to physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 2. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. A maximum of 100 people can attend the funeral. Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga can be held but are limited to a maximum of 10 people. More information on gatherings and events at Alert Level 3 Places of worship can use a variety of online methods to safely continue religious services. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Halaal butchers may open, but orders need to be taken online or by phone. You cannot enter the premises. We recommend either collecting your meat or getting it delivered to your home. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, a maximum of 10 people will be able to attend funerals. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalog and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- At different Alert Levels, gatherings may not be able to go ahead as usual because they present a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. This means we need to change how we come together for religious events and ceremonies, and it will also impact a number of other religious practices. --- Section Separator --- There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a religious event or ceremony at Alert Level 1. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at religious events and ceremonies to keep track of attendees. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- Religious buildings can open at Alert Level 2. Up to 100 people can gather in each defined space for religious ceremonies, events and services. A defined space is an area that is partitioned off from other areas by permanent or temporary walls. Faith-based institutions and clubs can operate with defined spaces, with up to 100 people in each area. You will need to prevent mingling between groups in common spaces, for example entrances, exits and toilets. Read more about defined spaces at Alert Level 2 Gatherings legally must: have no more than 100 people in each defined space excluding staff, for example clergy keep attendees who do not know each other 1 metre apart record attendees to ensure contact tracing can be done if necessary — but you don’t need to do this if each person at the gathering knows everyone. If the place of worship is a workplace, you legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster. We recommend that religious and faith-based gatherings follow social gathering rules, unless they’re operating under a club licence to sell alcohol. Then we recommend following hospitality rules. We recommend not participating in any gatherings if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms or if you need to be in isolation for any reason. We recommend following the general guidance for gatherings, including measures such as frequent cleaning, good hygiene, wearing face coverings and physical distancing. More information about gatherings and events at Alert Level 2. At Alert Level 2, priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they’re visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must adhere to the visiting policy of the health facility and follow the relevant infection prevention and control procedures. --- Section Separator --- Halaal butchers may open, and you may enter the store. The shop legally must adhere to physical distancing and contact tracing requirements. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 2. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 2 At Alert Level 2, funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. A maximum of 100 people can attend the funeral. --- Section Separator --- Weddings, and funerals and tangihanga can be held but are limited to a maximum of 10 people. More information on gatherings and events at Alert Level 3 Places of worship can use a variety of online methods to safely continue religious services. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. --- Section Separator --- Halaal butchers may open, but orders need to be taken online or by phone. You cannot enter the premises. We recommend either collecting your meat or getting it delivered to your home. The Imam or religious person can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence under Alert Level 3. In a health facility, they will need to adhere with the relevant visiting policy and infection prevention procedures. Funeral guidelines during Alert Level 3 At Alert Level 3, a maximum of 10 people will be able to attend funerals. Funerals can be officiated by your Imam. Funeral directors will work closely with Muslim communities to support ghusl (ritual washing) and janaza (prayer over the body) being carried out safely. --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalog and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori Pacific Peoples Support your community Make summer unstoppable Gatherings and events Funerals & tangihanga Religious communities Exercising safely Eating out and getting takeaways safely Bars and night clubs Life at home Shopping Parents, caregivers, and whānau
Home Everyday life Shopping Shopping safely --- Section Separator --- Supermarkets, dairies, petrol stations, and pharmacies and permitted health services are open at all Alert Levels, and you can go into their premises. All other shops can open if they can safely do so. This means following health restrictions for the relevant Alert Level. Guidance on which workplaces are open at different Alert Levels, and how they should operate (external link) Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19 or were told to self-isolate. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell If you cannot get essential supplies Wash your hands before and after you shop. You are encouraged to wear a face covering. Bring clean reusable shopping bags. If the business allows you to bring your own food containers, make sure they are clean and wipe them down when you get home. Try to limit the number of people from your household that are going to shop, as it will make physical distancing easier while you’re shopping. Try not to spend a long time in the shop. Shops will be doing their best to limit the number of shoppers — helping you maintain physical distance. If you like, take a soapy towel in a small container to wipe down the trolley or basket handles. Only touch what you intend to buy. If you can, use a contactless payment method like payWave, PayPass or Apple Pay. If you’re using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, do not touch your face until you have thoroughly washed your hands. Bag goods and groceries away from others if you can. Be respectful to employees and fellow shoppers. The risk of COVID-19 transmission by food packaging is very unlikely. New Zealand Food Safety do not recommend disinfecting food products. Supermarket websites will tell you if they have slots available for general online shopping. If they reserve these for sick or at-risk people, we recommend going to the supermarket instead of shopping online. It’s okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries. We recommend following the advice that applies to the Alert Level you're in. Businesses are free to set their own prices, but businesses should be transparent about their prices and any increases during this time. You can report concerns about potential price gouging on goods and services to Price Watch. Report price increases you have noticed to Price Watch (external link) If you are heading out to pick up the essentials, plan your shopping in advance. Do not make multiple trips and make sure you know what restrictions shops have in place. At Alert Level 3, independent butchers, bakeries and greengrocers may operate if they deliver or offer pre-arranged collection of goods bought online or by phone. You cannot enter the store. --- Section Separator --- Supermarkets, dairies, petrol stations, and pharmacies and permitted health services are open at all Alert Levels, and you can go into their premises. All other shops can open if they can safely do so. This means following health restrictions for the relevant Alert Level. Guidance on which workplaces are open at different Alert Levels, and how they should operate (external link) Do not shop if you are sick, have symptoms of COVID-19 or were told to self-isolate. Self-isolation advice if you’re unwell If you cannot get essential supplies --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands before and after you shop. You are encouraged to wear a face covering. Bring clean reusable shopping bags. If the business allows you to bring your own food containers, make sure they are clean and wipe them down when you get home. Try to limit the number of people from your household that are going to shop, as it will make physical distancing easier while you’re shopping. Try not to spend a long time in the shop. Shops will be doing their best to limit the number of shoppers — helping you maintain physical distance. If you like, take a soapy towel in a small container to wipe down the trolley or basket handles. Only touch what you intend to buy. If you can, use a contactless payment method like payWave, PayPass or Apple Pay. If you’re using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, do not touch your face until you have thoroughly washed your hands. Bag goods and groceries away from others if you can. Be respectful to employees and fellow shoppers. --- Section Separator --- The risk of COVID-19 transmission by food packaging is very unlikely. New Zealand Food Safety do not recommend disinfecting food products. --- Section Separator --- Supermarket websites will tell you if they have slots available for general online shopping. If they reserve these for sick or at-risk people, we recommend going to the supermarket instead of shopping online. It’s okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off goods and groceries. We recommend following the advice that applies to the Alert Level you're in. --- Section Separator --- Businesses are free to set their own prices, but businesses should be transparent about their prices and any increases during this time. You can report concerns about potential price gouging on goods and services to Price Watch. Report price increases you have noticed to Price Watch (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are heading out to pick up the essentials, plan your shopping in advance. Do not make multiple trips and make sure you know what restrictions shops have in place. At Alert Level 3, independent butchers, bakeries and greengrocers may operate if they deliver or offer pre-arranged collection of goods bought online or by phone. You cannot enter the store. --- Section Separator --- Shopping safely Accessing goods and services If you cannot get essential supplies
What the COVID-19 symptoms are, how fast they appear and what to do if you have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call Healthline, your doctor or iwi health provider. They will tell you if you should get a COVID-19 test. What to expect if you test positive for COVID-19, including going into quarantine, what to expect when you're there and when you can safely return home. The Government has a comprehensive plan to access safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines for New Zealanders. --- Section Separator --- What the COVID-19 symptoms are, how fast they appear and what to do if you have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call Healthline, your doctor or iwi health provider. They will tell you if you should get a COVID-19 test. What to expect if you test positive for COVID-19, including going into quarantine, what to expect when you're there and when you can safely return home. The Government has a comprehensive plan to access safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines for New Zealanders.
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. Some people may also have less common symptoms such as only: fever diarrhoea headache muscle pain nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline or your iwi health provider. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will advise whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting if you have any symptoms. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. If you’re outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. If you’re sick, stay home. Don’t go to work or school. Don’t socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms call your doctor or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and regularly disinfect shared surfaces. If you are told by health authorities to self-isolate do so immediately. If you are awaiting test results you will also need to self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 Like the flu, COVID-19 is spread by droplets from person to person. Good hygiene can prevent its spread. People can catch the virus through their eyes, nose or mouth. The scientific evidence proves that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may spread droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. People may get infected by the virus if they touch those surfaces or objects, and then touch their mouth, nose or eyes. That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, at any time. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands Sneeze and cough into your elbow Clean or disinfect shared surfaces regularly If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- Symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. Some people may also have less common symptoms such as only: fever diarrhoea headache muscle pain nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline or your iwi health provider. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will advise whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting if you have any symptoms. Let your health professional know if you have travelled internationally in the past 14 days, or if you have been in contact with a confirmed or probable case. If you’re outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. If you’re sick, stay home. Don’t go to work or school. Don’t socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms call your doctor or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and regularly disinfect shared surfaces. If you are told by health authorities to self-isolate do so immediately. If you are awaiting test results you will also need to self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Like the flu, COVID-19 is spread by droplets from person to person. Good hygiene can prevent its spread. People can catch the virus through their eyes, nose or mouth. The scientific evidence proves that COVID-19 is spread by droplets. When an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks, they may spread droplets containing the virus. These droplets are too large to stay in the air for long, so they quickly settle on surrounding surfaces. People may get infected by the virus if they touch those surfaces or objects, and then touch their mouth, nose or eyes. That’s why it’s really important to use good hygiene, at any time. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands Sneeze and cough into your elbow Clean or disinfect shared surfaces regularly If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms Get tested for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccines
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 Get tested for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms If you’ve visited a location of interest in Auckland, you should monitor your health. Depending on where you have been, you might need to isolate and get tested — even if you don’t have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. Check if you have visited a location of interest (external link) If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This applies whether you have symptoms of COVID-19 or not, and regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not be charged for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that your results can be sent to you. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it’s helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by Healthline or your doctor that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not be charged for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. When you are tested, you will be told how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will advise you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive If you need to be tested for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There’s more than 1 way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they’re testing. Detailed assessment and testing information from the Ministry of Health (external link) The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border (external link) Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test The Ministry of Health publishes data on: lab testing and capacity total tests completed tests by day and the cumulative total testing rates, including testing by district health board (DHB) and ethnicity. This data helps us measure New Zealand's recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) If you have been told by a health official to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. If you work in health, disability or aged-care facilities or services and you have COVID-19 symptoms, your employer can tell you to self-isolate while you wait to get a test or you are waiting for your test results. You will still be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, who is eligible and how employers can apply (external link) You must have been told to self-isolate by a health official such as: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate, for example a DHB Public Health Unit a medical practitioner, for example a doctor or GP a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process your employer — if you are a healthcare, disability or aged-care worker — following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or Nurse Practitioner, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will let you know the next steps and if you should get a test. COVID-19 symptoms If you’ve visited a location of interest in Auckland, you should monitor your health. Depending on where you have been, you might need to isolate and get tested — even if you don’t have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms. Check if you have visited a location of interest (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need a test, you can get one at: your general practice (GP) — call ahead before you turn up a Community Testing Centre. Community Testing Centre locations by district health board (external link) Search for a testing location near you (external link) --- Section Separator --- Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested. If you have symptoms and get tested, stay home until you have a negative test result. COVID-19 tests are free of charge. This applies whether you have symptoms of COVID-19 or not, and regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. You may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not be charged for your care if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that your results can be sent to you. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it’s helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by Healthline or your doctor that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not be charged for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it’s for the purpose of entering another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- When you are tested, you will be told how and when to expect your results. Whether you test negative or positive, you will receive your results. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will advise you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive --- Section Separator --- If you need to be tested for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There’s more than 1 way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. If you get tested, we need your help to keep healthcare workers safe. That means continuing to cough and sneeze into your elbow, and staying 2 metres away from other people wherever possible. Follow any instructions you get, like turning up on time, calling ahead or waiting in your car. The people testing you may wear protective equipment likes gowns or face coverings. This is nothing to worry about, it helps protect them and everyone they’re testing. Detailed assessment and testing information from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has information on testing for those who work at our ports or managed isolation and quarantine. Information on getting tested if you work at the border (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some countries require travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes data on: lab testing and capacity total tests completed tests by day and the cumulative total testing rates, including testing by district health board (DHB) and ethnicity. This data helps us measure New Zealand's recovery from COVID-19 and how to continue to respond in the best way. It also helps keep track of who is being tested, including vulnerable communities or at-risk groups with underlying health conditions. COVID-19 testing data on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have been told by a health official to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. If you work in health, disability or aged-care facilities or services and you have COVID-19 symptoms, your employer can tell you to self-isolate while you wait to get a test or you are waiting for your test results. You will still be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, who is eligible and how employers can apply (external link) You must have been told to self-isolate by a health official such as: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate, for example a DHB Public Health Unit a medical practitioner, for example a doctor or GP a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process your employer — if you are a healthcare, disability or aged-care worker — following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms Get tested for COVID-19 Community Testing Centres Community Testing Centres If you test positive for COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccines
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- The Government has secured 2 new vaccines, with 15 million vaccine courses pre-ordered so far. Latest update on the Government securing 2 new vaccines Our approach is to ensure we have flexibility and choice so we can secure the right vaccines for New Zealand and support our Pacific neighbours. We’ve made good progress. We’ve: joined the global COVAX Facility begun negotiating a series of independent purchasing agreements with pharmaceutical companies, with 4 already concluded invested in our local manufacturing capability supported Vaccine Alliance Aotearoa New Zealand to establish a national development and screening programme for potential COVID-19 vaccines. Find out more about our COVID-19 vaccine strategy (external link) We do not know when COVID-19 vaccines will be available to New Zealanders, but we are working to mid-to-late 2021. We will know more about timing as potential vaccines move through clinical trials and safety testing. Our priority is to ensure we have access to safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines. Medsafe must approve any vaccine before it can be provided to the community. Medsafe is an agency that regulates medicines in New Zealand, including vaccines. Medsafe’s evaluation and approval process for bringing COVID-19 vaccines into New Zealand (external link) Vaccine strategy COVID-19 vaccines: a kōrero with Dr Helen Petousis-Harris --- Section Separator --- The Government has secured 2 new vaccines, with 15 million vaccine courses pre-ordered so far. Latest update on the Government securing 2 new vaccines --- Section Separator --- Our approach is to ensure we have flexibility and choice so we can secure the right vaccines for New Zealand and support our Pacific neighbours. We’ve made good progress. We’ve: joined the global COVAX Facility begun negotiating a series of independent purchasing agreements with pharmaceutical companies, with 4 already concluded invested in our local manufacturing capability supported Vaccine Alliance Aotearoa New Zealand to establish a national development and screening programme for potential COVID-19 vaccines. Find out more about our COVID-19 vaccine strategy (external link) --- Section Separator --- We do not know when COVID-19 vaccines will be available to New Zealanders, but we are working to mid-to-late 2021. We will know more about timing as potential vaccines move through clinical trials and safety testing. --- Section Separator --- Our priority is to ensure we have access to safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines. Medsafe must approve any vaccine before it can be provided to the community. Medsafe is an agency that regulates medicines in New Zealand, including vaccines. Medsafe’s evaluation and approval process for bringing COVID-19 vaccines into New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccine strategy COVID-19 vaccines: a kōrero with Dr Helen Petousis-Harris --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms Get tested for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccines
Home Health and wellbeing COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- They will tell you want to do next and if you need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result. A lways stay home if you are feeling unwell or have symptoms of COVID-19. If you test positive a health professional will call you to discuss: all the people you have had contact with recently moving you into a quarantine facility. In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise they will need to self-isolate at home. In quarantine, you will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme You will usually be asked to move into a quarantine facility as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus spreading to others, and make sure you’re well looked after. The staff at the quarantine facility are well-trained on cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Quarantine facility staff will closely monitor your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making all necessary arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It’s up to you and your family/household to decide: if you want to isolate together in a quarantine facility, or if the person with COVID-19 goes into quarantine alone. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. On arrival, you will be provided with a ‘welcome pack’ with information about what to expect during your stay. You will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments, so you don’t need to leave to get supplies. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. If you’re unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in quarantine, or for any COVID-19 related medical costs. The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that didn’t need hospital care, this will be: at least 10 days after the onset of your symptoms, and after you have had no symptoms for at least 72 hours. If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. If you have been told by a health official to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. If you work in health, disability or aged-care facilities or services and you have COVID-19 symptoms, your employer can tell you to self-isolate while you wait to get a test or you are waiting for your test results. You will still be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, who is eligible and how employers can apply (external link) You must have been told to self-isolate by a health official such as: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate, for example a DHB Public Health Unit a medical practitioner, for example a doctor or GP a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process your employer — if you are a healthcare, disability or aged-care worker — following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- They will tell you want to do next and if you need to self-isolate while you wait for your test result. A lways stay home if you are feeling unwell or have symptoms of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive a health professional will call you to discuss: all the people you have had contact with recently moving you into a quarantine facility. In a quarantine facility, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise they will need to self-isolate at home. In quarantine, you will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme --- Section Separator --- You will usually be asked to move into a quarantine facility as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus spreading to others, and make sure you’re well looked after. The staff at the quarantine facility are well-trained on cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Quarantine facility staff will closely monitor your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making all necessary arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It’s up to you and your family/household to decide: if you want to isolate together in a quarantine facility, or if the person with COVID-19 goes into quarantine alone. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. --- Section Separator --- On arrival, you will be provided with a ‘welcome pack’ with information about what to expect during your stay. You will be provided with 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services and basic toiletries and refreshments, so you don’t need to leave to get supplies. Read more about isolation facilities (external link) There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. If you’re unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in quarantine, or for any COVID-19 related medical costs. --- Section Separator --- The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that didn’t need hospital care, this will be: at least 10 days after the onset of your symptoms, and after you have had no symptoms for at least 72 hours. If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis. --- Section Separator --- If you have been told by a health official to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. If you work in health, disability or aged-care facilities or services and you have COVID-19 symptoms, your employer can tell you to self-isolate while you wait to get a test or you are waiting for your test results. You will still be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, who is eligible and how employers can apply (external link) You must have been told to self-isolate by a health official such as: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate, for example a DHB Public Health Unit a medical practitioner, for example a doctor or GP a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process your employer — if you are a healthcare, disability or aged-care worker — following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms Get tested for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 COVID-19 vaccines
Home Health and wellbeing Exercising safely --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities. There are no limits on gathering sizes. We encourage voluntary and not-for-profit sport and recreation facilities and events to display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes to assist with contact tracing. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you’re sick, stay home. When exercising in public, keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know if possible. You can do activities like: walking, biking and hunting, including on public conservation land — overnight trips are okay swimming at a public swimming pool, but there will be restrictions going to the gym, but there will be restrictions boating and motorised watersports. At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers. You also need to follow the whitebait regulations. Community sports are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Referees, officials and other workers providing services to a sports game are not included in the 100 people. A sports field can have multiple defined spaces by keeping: people in groups of up to 100 groups separate either through consistent 2 metre physical distancing when outdoors, or using barriers. We recommend groups be prevented from intermingling or sharing common facilities at the same time. For example, a game of rugby can occur so long as there are no more than 100 people on the field. If that field has a stand on either side, up to 100 people can gather in each stand if they are kept separate from those from the other stand and from players and umpires on the field. Organisers and the person in control of the premises are responsible for collecting contact tracing information. Guidelines from Sport New Zealand (external link) Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. Spectators at professional sports games are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Gatherings, events and public venues Exercise and recreation is an important part of maintaining our health and wellbeing. However, there's a very high risk of transmission if we come into contact with others, touch common equipment or surfaces, or need rescuing or medical care. You can do activities that are local and safe. Only exercise alone or with the people in your extended bubble. You need to keep a 2 metre distance from people who aren’t in your bubble, and you are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. The most important thing is to stay safe. Do low-risk activities, so you don’t need rescuing or medical care. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you’re experienced you can do more activities. These include: surfing — if you’re an experienced surfer, you can go to your local break. If you’re not experienced, don’t surf tramping — is okay for day walks on easy trails. Remember to keep your distance from other people mountain biking — if you're experienced and know the trail swimming — in safe local spots. Don’t take risks that might mean rescue services have to break their bubble to help you horse riding — if you’re an experienced rider and it's low risk. Stay as close to home as you can. Stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. Boating, jet-skiing, yachting and scuba diving is not allowed. Team sports and training is also prohibited. Stick to your local area. For example, go to your nearest beach or park, not your favourite one. You can not stay overnight at a bach or holiday home. If you're exercising outside and it's too busy to keep a 2 metre distance from others, go home — go out later. We recommend driving as short a distance as you can and still do the activity. Find detailed information about sport and recreation under each Alert Level on the Sport New Zealand website (external link) You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. You need to stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Overnight trips are not allowed. You may only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. Hunters can not stay in DOC huts or campgrounds under Alert Level 3 and hunting must also be consistent with the usual local area restrictions. This is not the time to take up hunting as a new hobby. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you want to go fishing you can do so from a wharf or the shore, but don’t cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. You can fish for whitebait at Alert Level 3 during the whitebaiting season. You can only fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and do not use motorised vehicles to get to your fishing spot. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge, and do not enter the water or use a boat to fish. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it’s close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities. There are no limits on gathering sizes. We encourage voluntary and not-for-profit sport and recreation facilities and events to display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes to assist with contact tracing. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can do your usual sport and recreation activities if you can do them safely. But if you’re sick, stay home. When exercising in public, keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know if possible. You can do activities like: walking, biking and hunting, including on public conservation land — overnight trips are okay swimming at a public swimming pool, but there will be restrictions going to the gym, but there will be restrictions boating and motorised watersports. At Alert Level 2, you can fish for whitebait as long as you keep a 2 metre physical distance from other fishers. You also need to follow the whitebait regulations. Community sports are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Referees, officials and other workers providing services to a sports game are not included in the 100 people. A sports field can have multiple defined spaces by keeping: people in groups of up to 100 groups separate either through consistent 2 metre physical distancing when outdoors, or using barriers. We recommend groups be prevented from intermingling or sharing common facilities at the same time. For example, a game of rugby can occur so long as there are no more than 100 people on the field. If that field has a stand on either side, up to 100 people can gather in each stand if they are kept separate from those from the other stand and from players and umpires on the field. Organisers and the person in control of the premises are responsible for collecting contact tracing information. Guidelines from Sport New Zealand (external link) Professional leagues can go ahead at Alert Level 2 because they take place in controlled workplaces. High Performance Sport New Zealand activities can take place at Alert Level 2 using a controlled workplace approach in consultation with WorkSafe. Spectators at professional sports games are limited to groups of 100 in a defined space. Gatherings, events and public venues --- Section Separator --- Exercise and recreation is an important part of maintaining our health and wellbeing. However, there's a very high risk of transmission if we come into contact with others, touch common equipment or surfaces, or need rescuing or medical care. You can do activities that are local and safe. Only exercise alone or with the people in your extended bubble. You need to keep a 2 metre distance from people who aren’t in your bubble, and you are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. The most important thing is to stay safe. Do low-risk activities, so you don’t need rescuing or medical care. Now is not the time to take up new activities, or expose yourself or your bubble to any risk. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you’re experienced you can do more activities. These include: surfing — if you’re an experienced surfer, you can go to your local break. If you’re not experienced, don’t surf tramping — is okay for day walks on easy trails. Remember to keep your distance from other people mountain biking — if you're experienced and know the trail swimming — in safe local spots. Don’t take risks that might mean rescue services have to break their bubble to help you horse riding — if you’re an experienced rider and it's low risk. Stay as close to home as you can. Stay within 200 metres from shore if you are kayaking, canoeing, rowing, surfing, wind surfing or paddle boarding. Boating, jet-skiing, yachting and scuba diving is not allowed. Team sports and training is also prohibited. Stick to your local area. For example, go to your nearest beach or park, not your favourite one. You can not stay overnight at a bach or holiday home. If you're exercising outside and it's too busy to keep a 2 metre distance from others, go home — go out later. We recommend driving as short a distance as you can and still do the activity. Find detailed information about sport and recreation under each Alert Level on the Sport New Zealand website (external link) You can hunt on both private and public conservation land. You need to stay within your region and stick to your bubble. Overnight trips are not allowed. You may only hunt on foot — using quad bikes, off-road bikes, helicopters and other motorised vehicles is not allowed. Hunters can not stay in DOC huts or campgrounds under Alert Level 3 and hunting must also be consistent with the usual local area restrictions. This is not the time to take up hunting as a new hobby. Use your common sense — stay local, stay safe. If you want to go fishing you can do so from a wharf or the shore, but don’t cast off the rocks or fish from a boat. Boating is not allowed. You can fish for whitebait at Alert Level 3 during the whitebaiting season. You can only fish locally, stay 2 metres from other river users and do not use motorised vehicles to get to your fishing spot. You legally must also comply with all current whitebait regulations, including fishing from the banks of rivers or the water’s edge, and do not enter the water or use a boat to fish. You can do conservation volunteer work — including checking trap lines, planting and weeding. We recommend only doing the project if it’s close to home. You need to be able to keep 2 metres from people outside of your bubble. We recommend not organising large volunteer groups. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 How to access healthcare Exercising safely Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 In an emergency
Home Health and wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga --- Section Separator --- If someone in your whānau dies: Contact the health provider or doctor of the person who has died. Contact a local funeral director if you want to use one. Choosing a funeral director is an important decision to make after someone dies. You do not have to use a funeral director if you do not want — you can organise everything yourself if you want to. If you decide to use a funeral director, We recommend this being be one of the first things you organise. If the person has died from: an unknown cause, a post-mortem will need to happen. Their health provider will help you in the first instance, and the Police may be contacted a known health issue, their health provider will talk to the funeral director when you ’ ve appointed one — the funeral director will pass on this information COVID-19, their health provider will support you with information on what to do next. Ministry of Health advice on deaths, funerals and tangihanga (external link) Information after a death – Te Hokinga ā Wairua End of Life Service (external link) Funeral Directors’ Association of New Zealand (external link) Funeral and burial advice from the Office of Ethnic Communities (external link) You might not be able to say goodbye to a loved one, in the way you ’re used to, and this could be very challenging. Read through the basic advice on mental wellbeing and call or text 1737 . Talk with a trained counsellor, for free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Looking after your mental wellbeing There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga at Alert Level 1. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold one. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at funerals and tangihanga to assist in contact tracing. Get your QR code poster At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, up to 100 people can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate or unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu. Social gathering rules apply to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes churches, mosques and other faith-based institutions hired venues or facilities private dwellings. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. The organiser legally must ensure that contact tracing requirements are met. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau close friends. More information about gatherings and events Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Funerals, tangihanga and burials are allowed at Alert Level 3, but are limited to 10 people or under. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Up to 10 people in the same bubble may go to view the tūpapaku, the person who has died, by appointment with the funeral director. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in groups of up to 10 from the same bubble. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to maintain physical distance. They can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. We recommend no food or drink being served and physical distancing should be maintained between people. If you're attending a funeral or tangihanga we recommend still keeping 2 metres apart from people not in your bubble. You’re strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while maintaining a physical distance from people not in your bubble. The general guidance for avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. At Alert Level 3 there are strict restrictions in place for travel between regions. This is necessary to reduce the spread of COVID-19. If you need to travel into or out of a region at Alert Level 3 for a funeral or tangihanga you will need to apply for an exemption. Regional travel --- Section Separator --- If someone in your whānau dies: Contact the health provider or doctor of the person who has died. Contact a local funeral director if you want to use one. Choosing a funeral director is an important decision to make after someone dies. You do not have to use a funeral director if you do not want — you can organise everything yourself if you want to. If you decide to use a funeral director, We recommend this being be one of the first things you organise. If the person has died from: an unknown cause, a post-mortem will need to happen. Their health provider will help you in the first instance, and the Police may be contacted a known health issue, their health provider will talk to the funeral director when you ’ ve appointed one — the funeral director will pass on this information COVID-19, their health provider will support you with information on what to do next. Ministry of Health advice on deaths, funerals and tangihanga (external link) Information after a death – Te Hokinga ā Wairua End of Life Service (external link) Funeral Directors’ Association of New Zealand (external link) Funeral and burial advice from the Office of Ethnic Communities (external link) You might not be able to say goodbye to a loved one, in the way you ’re used to, and this could be very challenging. Read through the basic advice on mental wellbeing and call or text 1737 . Talk with a trained counsellor, for free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- There is no limit on the number of people who can attend a funeral or tangihanga at Alert Level 1. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold one. We encourage you to print off and display NZ COVID Tracer app QR codes at funerals and tangihanga to assist in contact tracing. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, up to 100 people can attend a funeral, tangihanga, kawe/hari mate or unveiling ceremony/hura kōhatu. Social gathering rules apply to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes churches, mosques and other faith-based institutions hired venues or facilities private dwellings. Organisers do not need to register with the Ministry of Health to hold a funeral or tangihanga. The organiser legally must ensure that contact tracing requirements are met. We recommend avoiding physical contact such as harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging except if you: live with them are whānau close friends. More information about gatherings and events Ministry of Health guidance on deaths, funerals and tangihanga at Alert Level 2 (external link) A defined space is a single indoor or outdoor space separated from other spaces. If a place has more than 1 defined space, then people should not intermingle between the defined places. This includes when entering, leaving, or using the toilet. It does not include workers. This also applies to separate businesses that work from the same location. An indoor space is a single space if there are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces. The walls can be permanent or temporary. An outdoor space is a single space if there: are walls that substantially divide that space from other spaces — the walls can be permanent or temporary, or is at least 2 metres between all people in that space and any other people (outside that space). --- Section Separator --- Gatherings of people create a very high risk of transmitting COVID-19. Funerals, tangihanga and burials are allowed at Alert Level 3, but are limited to 10 people or under. The 10 person limit includes kaikaranga, kaikōrero, members of the clergy or staff who are attending. Formal tangihanga involving large gatherings cannot take place at Alert Level 3. Up to 10 people in the same bubble may go to view the tūpapaku, the person who has died, by appointment with the funeral director. Other whānau can view the body by appointment, but only in groups of up to 10 from the same bubble. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements, including how to maintain physical distance. They can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. We recommend no food or drink being served and physical distancing should be maintained between people. If you're attending a funeral or tangihanga we recommend still keeping 2 metres apart from people not in your bubble. You’re strongly encouraged to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3 you can visit a cemetery in your region, if you can do so safely while maintaining a physical distance from people not in your bubble. The general guidance for avoiding physical contact, including harirū, hongi, kissing, and hugging, remain in place. Bereaved families and whānau from all cultures and backgrounds will find this time challenging. This makes it even more important that we show each other kindness and caring, manaakitanga and aroha. At Alert Level 3 there are strict restrictions in place for travel between regions. This is necessary to reduce the spread of COVID-19. If you need to travel into or out of a region at Alert Level 3 for a funeral or tangihanga you will need to apply for an exemption. Regional travel --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 How to access healthcare Exercising safely Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 In an emergency
Home Health and wellbeing People at risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- These guidelines will continue to be updated it as more evidence becomes available. You should work with your GP or specialist if you need help understanding your own level of risk and how best to stay healthy. People with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and some older people are at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19. At all Alert Levels, when you leave the house you need to maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma that needs multiple medications and medical care serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher hypertension that isn’t well controlled diabetes that isn’t well controlled chronic kidney disease liver disease. Many conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised, including: having chemotherapy or radiotherapy bone marrow or organ transplantation some blood cancers immune deficiencies including HIV infection prolonged use of corticosteroids and other immune weakening medications such as disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, in particular those who have underlying health issues, including respiratory issues that make them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Aged care facilities are susceptible to the rapid transmission of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more susceptible to illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying health conditions. See information on visiting an Aged Residential Care facility Overseas experience has shown a disproportionate impact from COVID-19 on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of adverse outcomes from COVID-19, particularly where there exists: a higher rate of chronic health conditions crowded housing difficulty accessing health care. People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your GP or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking (external link) We recommend pregnant women in their third trimester take extra precautions and keep themselves well at a time when the growing baby means higher oxygen demands on the mother. If you are pregnant and work in areas where there is high risk of exposure to COVID-19, for example some healthcare settings, you should discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for working differently if needed. If you cannot safely work at your workplace, and cannot work from home, you need to agree what your leave from work and pay arrangements will be with your employer. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Learn about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) At Alert Level 1 it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Things you can do to stay safe: Keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Avoid touching surfaces and wash your hands before and after you leave home. Wipe keys, handrails and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about doing a risk assessment in your workplace to look at what the risk is for you and how it can be reduced. At Alert Level 2 there is some freedom to move around and connect with close family, whānau and friends. If you are an at-risk person, you’ll need to take extra precautions when doing this. Things you can do to stay safe: Connect with smaller groups of close family, whānau and friends. Try not to interact with too many people outside of your own social circle as it won’t be easy to do contact tracing if necessary. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Wear a face covering where it’s difficult to keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know, for example in shops. Avoid touching surfaces and wash your hands before and after you leave home. Wipe keys, handrails and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. There is more detailed guidance available for people who are at higher risk of COVID-19 at Alert Level 2. This guidance includes advice on shopping, work, socialising, travel and recreation: Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 69 KB] There is more detailed guidance for people who are at higher risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. This includes people who are aged 70 and over and/or have certain existing health conditions, which may put them at risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. Find out the list of health conditions and the guidance on how you can live your life as normally as possible, including work and enjoying safe activities, without compromising your health and wellbeing at Alert Level 3. You can get essential in-home care at Alert Level 3, but services will be modified to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your general practitioner if you need further help understanding your own level of risk. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] --- Section Separator --- These guidelines will continue to be updated it as more evidence becomes available. You should work with your GP or specialist if you need help understanding your own level of risk and how best to stay healthy. People with underlying medical conditions, especially if not well-controlled, and some older people are at higher-risk of severe illness from COVID-19. At all Alert Levels, when you leave the house you need to maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices. Ministry of Health advice for people at risk (external link) --- Section Separator --- Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma that needs multiple medications and medical care serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher hypertension that isn’t well controlled diabetes that isn’t well controlled chronic kidney disease liver disease. Many conditions can cause a person to be immunocompromised, including: having chemotherapy or radiotherapy bone marrow or organ transplantation some blood cancers immune deficiencies including HIV infection prolonged use of corticosteroids and other immune weakening medications such as disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, in particular those who have underlying health issues, including respiratory issues that make them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Aged care facilities are susceptible to the rapid transmission of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more susceptible to illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying health conditions. See information on visiting an Aged Residential Care facility Overseas experience has shown a disproportionate impact from COVID-19 on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of adverse outcomes from COVID-19, particularly where there exists: a higher rate of chronic health conditions crowded housing difficulty accessing health care. People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your GP or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking (external link) We recommend pregnant women in their third trimester take extra precautions and keep themselves well at a time when the growing baby means higher oxygen demands on the mother. If you are pregnant and work in areas where there is high risk of exposure to COVID-19, for example some healthcare settings, you should discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for working differently if needed. If you cannot safely work at your workplace, and cannot work from home, you need to agree what your leave from work and pay arrangements will be with your employer. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Learn about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme (external link) These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. More information about parental leave (external link) --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1 it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. Maintain physical distance from others if you can and keep up good hygiene practices. Things you can do to stay safe: Keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Avoid touching surfaces and wash your hands before and after you leave home. Wipe keys, handrails and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about doing a risk assessment in your workplace to look at what the risk is for you and how it can be reduced. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2 there is some freedom to move around and connect with close family, whānau and friends. If you are an at-risk person, you’ll need to take extra precautions when doing this. Things you can do to stay safe: Connect with smaller groups of close family, whānau and friends. Try not to interact with too many people outside of your own social circle as it won’t be easy to do contact tracing if necessary. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. Wear a face covering where it’s difficult to keep a 2 metre distance from people you don’t know, for example in shops. Avoid touching surfaces and wash your hands before and after you leave home. Wipe keys, handrails and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. There is more detailed guidance available for people who are at higher risk of COVID-19 at Alert Level 2. This guidance includes advice on shopping, work, socialising, travel and recreation: Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 69 KB] --- Section Separator --- There is more detailed guidance for people who are at higher risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. This includes people who are aged 70 and over and/or have certain existing health conditions, which may put them at risk of severe illness if they contract COVID-19. Find out the list of health conditions and the guidance on how you can live your life as normally as possible, including work and enjoying safe activities, without compromising your health and wellbeing at Alert Level 3. You can get essential in-home care at Alert Level 3, but services will be modified to reduce the risks of COVID-19. It is recommended that you work with your general practitioner if you need further help understanding your own level of risk. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 609 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 How to access healthcare Exercising safely Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Te Whare Tapa Whā Mental wellbeing Funerals and tangihanga Family and sexual violence prevention People at risk of COVID-19 In an emergency
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Keep track of where you’ve been Fast and effective contact tracing helps us to prevent any further spread of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Find information about contact tracing: --- Section Separator --- Use the NZ COVID Tracer app if you can. The app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your app. Bluetooth tracing keeps track of who you’ve been near, while maintaining everyone’s privacy. Remember to keep scanning QR codes — both are important for contact tracing. Find out more about Bluetooth tracing If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. Encourage your family, whānau and friends to do the same. We recommend you keep track of the 3 Ws: Where you went. When you went there. Who you met. NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- NZ COVID Tracer app: Bluetooth tracing How contact tracing keeps us safe Contact tracing — Golden rules with Panatahi --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing keeps us safe — cartoon [PDF, 2.1 MB] How contact tracing keeps us safe — colouring-in version [PDF, 1014 KB] --- Section Separator --- To stop any future spread of COVID-19, we need to trace the contacts of anyone who may have been exposed to COVID-19 and break the chain of transmission. Recording people’s movements helps us to do this quickly and efficiently. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, you legally must display a NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster.
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Keep track of where you’ve been NZ COVID Tracer app The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app has been updated to include Bluetooth tracing technology. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing is not intended to replace our existing contact tracing processes or the NZ COVID Tracer QR codes. You still need to scan QR codes to keep track of where you’ve been. Bluetooth tracing is an added tool — it helps keep track of the people we’ve been near. Once you have turned Bluetooth tracing on, it works by sending out a private and secure random ID code. It’s like your phone is giving digital high-fives to other phones you are near. The Bluetooth tracing function records how close the other phone was, and for how long. The phones you come into contact with will need to have Bluetooth tracing turned on as well. This means that when someone tests positive for COVID-19, they can send an anonymous notification containing all the random IDs their phone has sent out over the past 14 days. If your phone recognises any of these IDs, and you had been close enough for long enough to be at risk of exposure, you’ll receive an alert. This alert will advise you on what to do to keep yourself and your whānau safe. Watch our Bluetooth tracing video on this page to see how it works. Most phones will update the app automatically. You can also choose to update your app manually in your app store or play store. Once you have the update, your app will ask you if you want to turn on Bluetooth tracing. Once you have turned this on, it will work even when your app is closed. Bluetooth tracing will not use any mobile data, and it will not drain your battery because it uses Bluetooth Low Energy. When you enable Bluetooth tracing, your privacy is always protected — it cannot share your location, your name or anything else about you. Bluetooth tracing also does not record who you came into contact with, or where you were. This means if you receive an alert because you came into contact with someone who tests positive for COVID-19, no one but you knows you have received it. All the contact tracing information you collect with the app is held securely on your phone, and it’s always your choice what information you choose to share. How to enable Bluetooth tracing, device minimum requirements and troubleshooting advice (external link) --- Section Separator --- NZ COVID Tracer app: Bluetooth tracing How contact tracing keeps us safe Contact tracing — Golden rules with Panatahi --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing keeps us safe — cartoon [PDF, 2.1 MB] How contact tracing keeps us safe — colouring-in version [PDF, 1014 KB] --- Section Separator --- Scanning QR codes with the NZ COVID Tracer app keeps us 1 step ahead of the virus — the more we scan the safer we’ll be. Taking a few seconds to scan means we can quickly let you know when you have visited a place where you may have been exposed to the virus. You can then take steps to protect yourself and your whānau. It also means if you test positive for the virus, you can instantly give your digital diary to contact tracers. This gives them a massive head start. The faster we can trace contacts, the faster we can prevent another outbreak of the virus. From 10 December, NZ COVID Tracer will have Bluetooth tracing to anonymously keep track of who you have been near. However, it’s still just as important to keep scanning QR codes to keep track of where you’ve been. Both are important for contact tracing. If you do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- If you have questions or feedback about the app or any problems using it: call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Information about privacy and COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- At all Alert Levels, you legally must display a NZ COVID Tracer QR code poster if you are a: businesses or service workplace public transport operators. Get your QR code poster Alternative contact tracing systems for people who do not use the app
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Keep track of where you’ve been NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you’re ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you’d like a booklet and cannot print your own. If you’re an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. How to use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet: Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalog and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. --- Section Separator --- Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you’re ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you’d like a booklet and cannot print your own. If you’re an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. --- Section Separator --- How to use the NZ COVID Tracer booklet: Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite Against COVID-19 collateral through our online catalog and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet How contact tracing works NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet How contact tracing works Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Maintain physical distancing --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as “social distancing”, is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who don’t live together and aren’t family/whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Even if you’re wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. However, it’s still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help minimise the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. We still need to be careful and socialise safely to keep COVID-19 under control. What we can do: Keep a 2 metre distance in public. Take extra care if you interact with people you don’t know as it won’t be easy to do contact tracing if needed. This means making the space when you’re in places like playgrounds, parks, retail businesses, shopping malls or walking along the street. Keep 1 metre physical distance in ‘controlled environments’ where contact tracing and other public health measures are possible. This includes places like cafes, church groups, gatherings, restaurants and gyms. You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you’re feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. Outside of your home, you legally must continue to keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times. Workers legally must maintain physical distance in the workplace. --- Section Separator --- Physical distancing, sometimes known as “social distancing”, is about keeping a safe distance from others. This is about physical distance. For your own mental health you can, and should, keep in touch with friends and family via the phone, or online. We are all being asked to play our part to refrain from physical contact to prevent the spread of COVID-19. COVID-19 can spread from person to person through physical contact. As well as the impact on New Zealanders generally, this will have an effect on particular areas of tikanga Māori including kawa , as we move to protect our whānau, hapū and iwi. It will particularly affect those who are more vulnerable such as our kaumātua — our koroua and kuia . In practice, for those who don’t live together and aren’t family/whānau or close friends, this means suspending our customs of hongi and harirū , as well as kissing, hugging and other forms of close physical contact. Alternatives include waving, smiling or other non-physical contact greetings. Even if you’re wearing a face covering, we recommend still physically distancing. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is contained at Alert Level 1, so you do not need to maintain physical distance from others. However, it’s still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you don’t know while out and about. This will help minimise the spread of COVID-19 if it reappears in the community. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can leave home and do many aspects of everyday life. You should follow public health measures and consider others around you. We still need to be careful and socialise safely to keep COVID-19 under control. What we can do: Keep a 2 metre distance in public. Take extra care if you interact with people you don’t know as it won’t be easy to do contact tracing if needed. This means making the space when you’re in places like playgrounds, parks, retail businesses, shopping malls or walking along the street. Keep 1 metre physical distance in ‘controlled environments’ where contact tracing and other public health measures are possible. This includes places like cafes, church groups, gatherings, restaurants and gyms. You can socialise at Alert Level 2, but keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. This is easier if you socialise with people you know well. If you’re feeling sick or have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, we recommend you stay at home and not socialise with anyone. --- Section Separator --- Outside of your home, you legally must continue to keep a 2 metre distance from people at all times. Workers legally must maintain physical distance in the workplace. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Stay home if you’re sick --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you’re helping keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. Symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. Some people may also have less common symptoms such as only: fever diarrhoea headache muscle pain nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline or your iwi health provider. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. COVID-19 symptoms Staying at home if you’re sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you’re waiting for COVID-19 test results, and have been told you need to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. If somebody you live with develops cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms they should call their regular health professional. If they do not have a regular health professional they can call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re unwell, we recommend not sharing a bed with others. Speak with your family and whānau about sleeping arrangements. Avoid sleeping in a common area until you’re feeling better. Aim to stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can be opened. Try to keep the window open as much as possible to enable ventilation and airflow as this will help to keep clean air moving through your room. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms as much as possible and keep shared spaces clean and well ventilated. While you’re unwell, do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household, use the phone or other means of contact. It's okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. We recommend also avoiding visiting others if you’re unwell. Stay home until you have fully recovered. Do not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups or eating utensils with other people in your home. After using these items, we recommend washing them thoroughly with soap and water, putting them in the dishwasher for cleaning, or washing them in the sink. Use your own toothbrushes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. Do not share food and drinks. Someone in your home can prepare your food, but we recommend not preparing food for others. Wash your clothing and dishes separate to others in your home. Make sure you use separate towels from other people in your house, both for drying yourself after bathing or showering and for hand-hygiene purposes. Ask your family and whānau or the people you live with to use their own towels and keep them separate. We recommend doing your own laundry. Dirty laundry that has been in contact with a sick person can be washed with other people’s items. Do not shake dirty laundry. This minimises the possibility of dispersing the virus. It may be easier for someone else to fold and put away clean laundry items such as towels and tea towels. They can also provide a supply of laundry items to you. If you do not have a washing machine, wait until you’re no longer unwell before taking your laundry to a laundrette. If you have been told by a health official to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. If you work in health, disability or aged-care facilities or services and you have COVID-19 symptoms, your employer can tell you to self-isolate while you wait to get a test or you are waiting for your test results. You will still be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, who is eligible and how employers can apply (external link) You must have been told to self-isolate by a health official such as: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate, for example a DHB Public Health Unit a medical practitioner, for example a doctor or GP a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process your employer — if you are a healthcare, disability or aged-care worker — following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you’re helping keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. --- Section Separator --- Symptoms include: a new or worsening cough a fever of at least 38°C shortness of breath sore throat sneezing and runny nose temporary loss of smell. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are similar to other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. Some people may also have less common symptoms such as only: fever diarrhoea headache muscle pain nausea and vomiting confusion and irritability. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline or your iwi health provider. We do not yet know how long symptoms take to show after a person has been infected, but current World Health Organization assessments suggest that it’s 2 to 10 days. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Staying at home if you’re sick is the best thing you can do to stop any future spread of COVID-19. If you’re feeling unwell, it’s critical you stay at home and recover. If you’re waiting for COVID-19 test results, and have been told you need to self-isolate, you legally must do so immediately. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. --- Section Separator --- If somebody you live with develops cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms they should call their regular health professional. If they do not have a regular health professional they can call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . If you’re unwell, we recommend not sharing a bed with others. Speak with your family and whānau about sleeping arrangements. Avoid sleeping in a common area until you’re feeling better. Aim to stay in a well-ventilated room with a window that can be opened. Try to keep the window open as much as possible to enable ventilation and airflow as this will help to keep clean air moving through your room. Minimise the time you spend in shared spaces such as bathrooms, kitchens and sitting rooms as much as possible and keep shared spaces clean and well ventilated. --- Section Separator --- While you’re unwell, do not invite or allow social visitors, such as friends, family and whānau, to enter your home. If you want to speak to someone who is not a member of your household, use the phone or other means of contact. It's okay for friends, family, whānau or delivery drivers to drop off food and supplies. Ask them to leave items at the door. We recommend also avoiding visiting others if you’re unwell. Stay home until you have fully recovered. --- Section Separator --- Do not share dishes, drinking glasses, cups or eating utensils with other people in your home. After using these items, we recommend washing them thoroughly with soap and water, putting them in the dishwasher for cleaning, or washing them in the sink. Use your own toothbrushes, towels, washcloths or bed linen. Do not share food and drinks. Someone in your home can prepare your food, but we recommend not preparing food for others. Wash your clothing and dishes separate to others in your home. Make sure you use separate towels from other people in your house, both for drying yourself after bathing or showering and for hand-hygiene purposes. Ask your family and whānau or the people you live with to use their own towels and keep them separate. --- Section Separator --- We recommend doing your own laundry. Dirty laundry that has been in contact with a sick person can be washed with other people’s items. Do not shake dirty laundry. This minimises the possibility of dispersing the virus. It may be easier for someone else to fold and put away clean laundry items such as towels and tea towels. They can also provide a supply of laundry items to you. If you do not have a washing machine, wait until you’re no longer unwell before taking your laundry to a laundrette. --- Section Separator --- If you have been told by a health official to self-isolate and you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. The scheme means employees and self-employed people receive an income if they cannot work from home while they’re self-isolating. The COVID-19 Leave Support is paid as a lump sum, calculated to cover 2 weeks. Your employer can re-apply for you if you still qualify after 2 weeks. If you work in health, disability or aged-care facilities or services and you have COVID-19 symptoms, your employer can tell you to self-isolate while you wait to get a test or you are waiting for your test results. You will still be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. More about the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme, who is eligible and how employers can apply (external link) You must have been told to self-isolate by a health official such as: a Medical Officer of Health or their delegate, for example a DHB Public Health Unit a medical practitioner, for example a doctor or GP a health official through the Ministry of Health’s National Contact Tracing process your employer — if you are a healthcare, disability or aged-care worker — following best practice guidance from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wash your hands --- Section Separator --- Do not touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: Wet hands with running water. Apply enough soap to cover wet hands. Scrub all surfaces of the hands — including the back of hands, between fingers and under nails — for at least 20 seconds. Rinse thoroughly with running water. Dry hands with a clean cloth, single-use towel or blow-drier. The same goes for hand sanitiser, use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. Rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. Wash your hands regularly, especially: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space, including public transport, markets and places of worship after touching surfaces outside of the home after touching money before, during and after caring for a sick or vulnerable person before and after eating. Always wash your hands: after using the toilet before and after eating after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets after changing babies’ nappies or helping children use the toilet when your hands are visibly dirty. You can use any temperature of water to wash your hands. As long as you use soap, cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses. Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser, when done correctly, are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you’re outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Do not touch your eyes, nose or mouth if your hands are not clean. --- Section Separator --- Follow these steps to wash your hands properly: Wet hands with running water. Apply enough soap to cover wet hands. Scrub all surfaces of the hands — including the back of hands, between fingers and under nails — for at least 20 seconds. Rinse thoroughly with running water. Dry hands with a clean cloth, single-use towel or blow-drier. --- Section Separator --- The same goes for hand sanitiser, use a sanitiser that contains at least 60% alcohol. Rub it into your hands for at least 20 seconds to ensure full coverage. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands regularly, especially: after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing after visiting a public space, including public transport, markets and places of worship after touching surfaces outside of the home after touching money before, during and after caring for a sick or vulnerable person before and after eating. Always wash your hands: after using the toilet before and after eating after handling rubbish after touching animals and pets after changing babies’ nappies or helping children use the toilet when your hands are visibly dirty. --- Section Separator --- You can use any temperature of water to wash your hands. As long as you use soap, cold water and warm water both kill germs and viruses. --- Section Separator --- Handwashing with soap and water or using hand sanitiser, when done correctly, are both highly effective at killing most germs and viruses. Hand sanitiser is often more convenient when you’re outside of the home, but can be expensive or difficult to find in emergency contexts. --- Section Separator --- You can make handwashing easier for children by setting up a stool so they can reach water and soap by themselves. You can make it fun for them by singing their favourite songs while you help them rub their hands. --- Section Separator --- Germs spread more easily from wet skin than from dry skin, so drying your hands completely is an important step. Paper towels or clean cloths are the most effective way to remove germs without spreading them to other surfaces. --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Health and wellbeing Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. A face covering helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings are only 1 part of keeping yourself and others safe. Our strategy to protect New Zealand against COVID-19 is based on our border protections, testing, contact tracing and other public health measures, like washing hands and physical distancing. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to help keep people safe. At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. We encourage you to wear face coverings on public transport and when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded indoor places, like in supermarkets. You legally must wear a face covering when you’re travelling on a domestic flight anywhere in New Zealand  — this does not include private flights. Be prepared by having a supply of face coverings for everyone who usually lives in your household. Add some to your household emergency kit. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Face coverings do not need to be worn: by children under 12 by students on school buses by passengers in taxis or ride-share services, but drivers are required to on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilots in a cockpit or train drivers in a train cab. You also do not need to wear face coverings if: it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is Deaf or hard of hearing you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink it is required by law. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. To help with this, we have developed an exemption card. If you cannot wear a face covering, you can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. If you think you need an exemption card, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . You can get a printable version, or a card that you can show on your phone. If these are not suitable, Healthline will talk through other options with you. If you prefer, you can contact the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ on 04 801 9100 or at info@dpa.org.nz At Alert Levels 2 and above the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. So, wearing a face covering is more important. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft at Alert Level 2. This includes trains, buses and ferries. They do not need to be worn: by children under 12 on school buses on charter or group tours on inter-island ferries on private scenic flights. These groups are likely to be in each other’s bubbles as part of a registered group or have space to physically distance where possible. Also, face coverings do not need to be worn: by passengers of small passenger vehicles, such as taxis and Uber. Drivers will be required to wear face coverings by people with a disability or physical or mental health condition which makes it difficult to wear a face covering if it’s not safe, for example by pilots if it affects their vision. There will be other times when it's not required. For example: In an emergency. If it’s not safe. If people need to prove their identity. To communicate with someone who is deaf. If required by law. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. Children and young people do not need to wear face coverings at school. This is because the risk of infection within the school environment is low. Other public health control measures will be in place including: children and staff staying home if they’re sick contact tracing hygiene requirements. It’s not mandatory to wear a face covering. Wearing face coverings is advised where it’s not possible to practise physical distancing or to carry out contact tracing. For example, in crowded spaces on Tertiary Education Organisation campuses, or teaching and learning situations where close physical contact cannot be avoided. Teachers do not need to wear face coverings at Alert Level 2. Other public health control measures will be in place including: children and staff staying home if they’re sick contact tracing hygiene requirements. At Alert Level 2, when not on public transport, we recommend you consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. At Alert Level 3, the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft at Alert Level 3. This includes trains, buses, and ferries. You are also strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people. When you wear a face covering, it's important you use it safely. How to wear a face covering safely Most people can use non-medical-grade face coverings. These face coverings prevent the wearer from spreading diseases to others and could help protect the wearer from becoming infected. Non-medical-grade face coverings can be either single-use or reusable. A single-use face covering can only be worn once, and we recommend you throw it away after wearing it. Fabric reusable face coverings can be washed and reused. Non-medical-grade face coverings do not need to conform to any standard. This means they are not used in medical settings. You can buy non-medical-grade face coverings online or in shops like pharmacies, supermarkets and hardware stores. If you do not have a face covering, you don’t need to rush out and buy one. You can use another kind of covering, like a bandana, scarf or t-shirt. How to make a face covering At raised Alert Levels, people at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are advised to avoid contact with the public. If you need to go out, and feel you are vulnerable, you may wish to discuss with your health provider whether using a medical mask is best for you. Medical masks are made to be used by health care workers. These masks provide a protective barrier between the health care worker and the people they are treating to reduce transmission of infectious diseases. They are used in combination with other measures such as hand hygiene and physical distancing when required. They are not reusable and must comply with the standard AS 4381:2015, or international equivalent. Surgical masks are worn by health care professionals during healthcare procedures. They generally have a higher level of quality testing and are designed to reduce fluid splash and transmission of infectious diseases. The Ministry of Health will make sure there is enough supply and distribution of medical and surgical masks for the wider health sector. Ensuring medical, surgical and N95 (or equivalent) masks are available for health care workers and those working in high-risk COVID-19 settings, such as border control, continues to be a priority. Find 2 ways of making a face covering: Make a face covering in under 10 seconds with no sewing. Sew your own face covering. How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. A face covering helps stop droplets spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This includes someone who has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. Face coverings are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. Face coverings are only 1 part of keeping yourself and others safe. Our strategy to protect New Zealand against COVID-19 is based on our border protections, testing, contact tracing and other public health measures, like washing hands and physical distancing. Face coverings are an extra protective physical barrier to help keep people safe. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, there is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community. We encourage you to wear face coverings on public transport and when you cannot maintain physical distance in crowded indoor places, like in supermarkets. You legally must wear a face covering when you’re travelling on a domestic flight anywhere in New Zealand  — this does not include private flights. Be prepared by having a supply of face coverings for everyone who usually lives in your household. Add some to your household emergency kit. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Face coverings do not need to be worn: by children under 12 by students on school buses by passengers in taxis or ride-share services, but drivers are required to on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilots in a cockpit or train drivers in a train cab. You also do not need to wear face coverings if: it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is Deaf or hard of hearing you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink it is required by law. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. To help with this, we have developed an exemption card. If you cannot wear a face covering, you can show your exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have an exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. If you think you need an exemption card, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . You can get a printable version, or a card that you can show on your phone. If these are not suitable, Healthline will talk through other options with you. If you prefer, you can contact the Disabled Persons Assembly NZ on 04 801 9100 or at info@dpa.org.nz --- Section Separator --- At Alert Levels 2 and above the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. So, wearing a face covering is more important. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft at Alert Level 2. This includes trains, buses and ferries. They do not need to be worn: by children under 12 on school buses on charter or group tours on inter-island ferries on private scenic flights. These groups are likely to be in each other’s bubbles as part of a registered group or have space to physically distance where possible. Also, face coverings do not need to be worn: by passengers of small passenger vehicles, such as taxis and Uber. Drivers will be required to wear face coverings by people with a disability or physical or mental health condition which makes it difficult to wear a face covering if it’s not safe, for example by pilots if it affects their vision. There will be other times when it's not required. For example: In an emergency. If it’s not safe. If people need to prove their identity. To communicate with someone who is deaf. If required by law. Drivers and transport operators will not stop people without face coverings from boarding public transport. This is because some people will have legitimate reasons for not wearing a face covering. However, where possible, drivers will be encouraging passengers to wear a face covering. Children and young people do not need to wear face coverings at school. This is because the risk of infection within the school environment is low. Other public health control measures will be in place including: children and staff staying home if they’re sick contact tracing hygiene requirements. It’s not mandatory to wear a face covering. Wearing face coverings is advised where it’s not possible to practise physical distancing or to carry out contact tracing. For example, in crowded spaces on Tertiary Education Organisation campuses, or teaching and learning situations where close physical contact cannot be avoided. Teachers do not need to wear face coverings at Alert Level 2. Other public health control measures will be in place including: children and staff staying home if they’re sick contact tracing hygiene requirements. At Alert Level 2, when not on public transport, we recommend you consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, the risk of COVID-19 being present in the community is higher. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft at Alert Level 3. This includes trains, buses, and ferries. You are also strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people. --- Section Separator --- When you wear a face covering, it's important you use it safely. How to wear a face covering safely --- Section Separator --- Most people can use non-medical-grade face coverings. These face coverings prevent the wearer from spreading diseases to others and could help protect the wearer from becoming infected. Non-medical-grade face coverings can be either single-use or reusable. A single-use face covering can only be worn once, and we recommend you throw it away after wearing it. Fabric reusable face coverings can be washed and reused. Non-medical-grade face coverings do not need to conform to any standard. This means they are not used in medical settings. You can buy non-medical-grade face coverings online or in shops like pharmacies, supermarkets and hardware stores. If you do not have a face covering, you don’t need to rush out and buy one. You can use another kind of covering, like a bandana, scarf or t-shirt. How to make a face covering At raised Alert Levels, people at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are advised to avoid contact with the public. If you need to go out, and feel you are vulnerable, you may wish to discuss with your health provider whether using a medical mask is best for you. Medical masks are made to be used by health care workers. These masks provide a protective barrier between the health care worker and the people they are treating to reduce transmission of infectious diseases. They are used in combination with other measures such as hand hygiene and physical distancing when required. They are not reusable and must comply with the standard AS 4381:2015, or international equivalent. Surgical masks are worn by health care professionals during healthcare procedures. They generally have a higher level of quality testing and are designed to reduce fluid splash and transmission of infectious diseases. The Ministry of Health will make sure there is enough supply and distribution of medical and surgical masks for the wider health sector. Ensuring medical, surgical and N95 (or equivalent) masks are available for health care workers and those working in high-risk COVID-19 settings, such as border control, continues to be a priority. --- Section Separator --- Find 2 ways of making a face covering: Make a face covering in under 10 seconds with no sewing. Sew your own face covering. How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- Stay home if you’re sick Keep track of where you’ve been Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Wash your hands Cough or sneeze into your elbow Clean surfaces Maintain physical distancing
Home Travel and the border Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — regardless of destination. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand You can travel from New Zealand to some states in Australia without needing to quarantine there if you: have been in New Zealand for 14 days or more and have not been in a designated hotspot, and are travelling to Australia on a quarantine-free flight. If you want to avoid quarantine, you can only travel to: Australian Capital Territory New South Wales Northern Territory, or Victoria. If you want to travel on to other states or territories, you will have to check what you need to do before you travel. Some states or territories may require you to quarantine when you arrive. The Australian Government has more information on: designated hotspots and if there are any in New Zealand quarantine-free flights whether you need a visa to enter Australia travel exemptions if you have been in New Zealand for less than 14 days. Guidance on travelling between New Zealand and Australia from the Australian Government (external link) If you plan to travel back to New Zealand after your trip to Australia, you will need to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive back. You may be charged for your stay. Before booking your flights, you need to register for a voucher to secure your place in a managed isolation facility. Managed isolation and quarantine in New Zealand (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited pre-Christmas, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you regularly check the Managed Isolation Allocation System website for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) Some countries require you to have a negative COVID-19 test before you travel. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your GP. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your GP or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from managed isolation or quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate for 14 days on arrival, or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — regardless of destination. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealanders overseas --- Section Separator --- If you are a foreign national travelling in New Zealand, we recommend you consider returning home as soon as you are able to. Advice for foreign nationals in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can travel from New Zealand to some states in Australia without needing to quarantine there if you: have been in New Zealand for 14 days or more and have not been in a designated hotspot, and are travelling to Australia on a quarantine-free flight. If you want to avoid quarantine, you can only travel to: Australian Capital Territory New South Wales Northern Territory, or Victoria. If you want to travel on to other states or territories, you will have to check what you need to do before you travel. Some states or territories may require you to quarantine when you arrive. The Australian Government has more information on: designated hotspots and if there are any in New Zealand quarantine-free flights whether you need a visa to enter Australia travel exemptions if you have been in New Zealand for less than 14 days. Guidance on travelling between New Zealand and Australia from the Australian Government (external link) If you plan to travel back to New Zealand after your trip to Australia, you will need to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive back. You may be charged for your stay. Before booking your flights, you need to register for a voucher to secure your place in a managed isolation facility. Managed isolation and quarantine in New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited pre-Christmas, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you regularly check the Managed Isolation Allocation System website for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some countries require you to have a negative COVID-19 test before you travel. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your GP. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your GP or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given a hard-copy document with the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from managed isolation or quarantine. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border New Zealanders overseas --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you're in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Plan your travel to New Zealand It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand, you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited pre-Christmas, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you regularly check the Managed Isolation Allocation System website for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders currently travelling overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice for the country or region you're in. Remember to keep your details and travel plans up to date. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice for New Zealanders overseas during COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Plan your travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand, you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited pre-Christmas, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you regularly check the Managed Isolation Allocation System website for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from managed isolation or quarantine. Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited pre-Christmas, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you regularly check the Managed Isolation Allocation System website for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from managed isolation or quarantine. Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited pre-Christmas, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you regularly check the Managed Isolation Allocation System website for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand, you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited pre-Christmas, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you regularly check the Managed Isolation Allocation System website for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) Many countries around the world have closed their borders and imposed stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. We recommend you contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. Contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from or transiting through areas affected by border measures. Cruise ships continue to be banned from entering New Zealand. Vessels can enter New Zealand if all aboard are New Zealand citizens or permanent residents. There are exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Visa information for critical workers in the maritime sector (external link) If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) You will not be able to go to the shops when you first arrive in New Zealand, or while you are in managed isolation or quarantine. What to bring with you to New Zealand (external link) Keep yourself, your whānau and those around you safe while travelling to New Zealand. Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. Doing these things will help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it home with you. What happens when you arrive back in New Zealand depends on whether you arrive by air or sea. Arriving in New Zealand and being transferred to an isolation or quarantine facility (external link) Entering managed isolation and what to expect (external link) When you arrive by air, you will be screened for cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms at the airport. If you have symptoms or are waiting for the results of a test, you will go to a quarantine facility. Otherwise, you will go to an isolation facility. Both types of facilities are in hotels. When you arrive by sea, you may complete your isolation on your vessel. International transit travel through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers. Closed borders helps stop COVID-19 from spreading through our communities. The travel ban applies to all arrivals into New Zealand whether by air or sea. You have a legal right to come to New Zealand if you’re: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. There are a small number of limited exceptions to the ban on travelling to and entering New Zealand. These exceptions apply to people who: already hold a temporary New Zealand visa don’t have a New Zealand visa. If you’re not a New Zealand citizen or resident you legally must get approval from Immigration New Zealand before travelling to New Zealand. COVID-19 key updates from Immigration NZ (external link) There are also exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- It's important people returning to New Zealand do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. If you're returning to New Zealand, you legally must complete at least 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay. Managed isolation and quarantine You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited pre-Christmas, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you regularly check the Managed Isolation Allocation System website for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- Many countries around the world have closed their borders and imposed stricter travel restrictions. Commercial flight options are available to return to New Zealand but are limited. We recommend you contact your airline and other travel providers for the most up-to-date information about flight availability. Contact your travel agent or airline if you are travelling from or transiting through areas affected by border measures. Cruise ships continue to be banned from entering New Zealand. Vessels can enter New Zealand if all aboard are New Zealand citizens or permanent residents. There are exceptions for some vessels. This includes cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector from the Ministry of Health (external link) Visa information for critical workers in the maritime sector (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- You will not be able to go to the shops when you first arrive in New Zealand, or while you are in managed isolation or quarantine. What to bring with you to New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Keep yourself, your whānau and those around you safe while travelling to New Zealand. Avoid going to high-risk events like parties, social gatherings or crowded places. Avoid contact with people who have COVID-19 or who are contacts of people with COVID-19. Stay home as much as possible to limit your contact with other people. Wash and dry your hands often, cough into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Wear a face covering when you cannot keep your distance. Doing these things will help reduce your risk of being exposed to COVID-19 and bringing it home with you. --- Section Separator --- What happens when you arrive back in New Zealand depends on whether you arrive by air or sea. Arriving in New Zealand and being transferred to an isolation or quarantine facility (external link) Entering managed isolation and what to expect (external link) When you arrive by air, you will be screened for cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms at the airport. If you have symptoms or are waiting for the results of a test, you will go to a quarantine facility. Otherwise, you will go to an isolation facility. Both types of facilities are in hotels. When you arrive by sea, you may complete your isolation on your vessel. --- Section Separator --- International transit travel through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine Managed isolation and quarantine Leaving New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel within New Zealand New Zealanders overseas Foreign nationals in New Zealand
Home Travel and the border Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine --- Section Separator --- While our borders are closed, New Zealand citizens and permanent residents have a legal right to come home. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. By completing 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. People are tested for COVID-19 around day 3 and day 12 of their stay, and they must test negative before they can leave. Over 68,000 people have completed their managed isolation stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. When you arrive in New Zealand you are screened for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Get your voucher by registering on the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited pre-Christmas, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you regularly check the Managed Isolation Allocation System website for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in managed isolation or quarantine. The Government recovers some of the costs for managed isolation. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for managed isolation and who needs to pay (external link) There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. We have put in place a robust system for exemptions from managed isolation. Releases from managed isolation are only issued in very limited circumstances, and where the public health risk is low and can be managed. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website, run by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE), has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply Exemptions from managed isolation and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- While our borders are closed, New Zealand citizens and permanent residents have a legal right to come home. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. By completing 14 days in managed isolation or quarantine, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. People are tested for COVID-19 around day 3 and day 12 of their stay, and they must test negative before they can leave. Over 68,000 people have completed their managed isolation stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. When you arrive in New Zealand you are screened for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. --- Section Separator --- You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in a managed isolation facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Get your voucher by registering on the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Register for a voucher for managed isolation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Spaces in managed isolation are extremely limited pre-Christmas, but may become available as travel plans change. We recommend you regularly check the Managed Isolation Allocation System website for your preferred date. Managed Isolation Allocation System (external link) --- Section Separator --- Space in managed isolation is extremely limited. An emergency allocation process exists for limited situations that require urgent travel to New Zealand within the next 7 days. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — within the next 7 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The managed isolation and quarantine website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not have to pay for a voucher. However, some people will be charged for their stay in managed isolation or quarantine. The Government recovers some of the costs for managed isolation. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for managed isolation and who needs to pay (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. We have put in place a robust system for exemptions from managed isolation. Releases from managed isolation are only issued in very limited circumstances, and where the public health risk is low and can be managed. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website, run by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE), has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply Exemptions from managed isolation and how to apply (external link) --- Section Separator --- Managed isolation and quarantine
Home Travel and the border Travel within New Zealand Leaving your house --- Section Separator --- You can leave your house and gather with as many people as you want at Alert Level 1. We encourage you to use face coverings on public transport and when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, for example in supermarkets. At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, it's important that you follow public health measures and consider others. Do everything you can to reduce the risk of transmission. COVID-19 is in New Zealand. Play it safe. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know when you’re in public places and retail stores. In other environments, such as your workplace, try to keep a 1 metre distance from others. Wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Wash your hands properly, and dry them. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and regularly disinfect surfaces. Keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Exercising safely There are times when it's important that you not be out and about. If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and get tested. If you have been told to self-isolate do so immediately. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are some situations when you do not have to wear them. Face coverings on public transport information If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, take extra care when you leave your house. Guidance for at-risk people At Alert Level 3, we recommend people stay at home as much as possible except for exercise, going to work or school, or visiting local services like the doctor, pharmacy or supermarket. If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness should you contract COVID-19, you need to be especially careful. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 Keep a 2 metre distance from other people at all times. Do not touch surfaces others may have touched — avoid park benches or playgrounds Do not travel far from home, especially not to baches or second homes Only shop for essential supplies Wash your hands regularly Stay local if you go out for exercise. More information about exercising safely You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are some situations when you do not have to wear them. Face coverings on public transport information Staying close to home is one of the most important things we can do to reduce the risk of spreading the disease. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered “local” will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. You can exercise at parks or beaches within your region, but the closer to home the better. Be safe while out exercising. Keep 2 metres away from anybody not in your bubble. Make minimal trips. Most of all during this time, we encourage you to continue to connect with one another. Stay in touch with your older relatives and vulnerable people, talk to your friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone and see if they need your support. Acts of kindness and maintaining these connections is essential while we work to stop the spread of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- You can leave your house and gather with as many people as you want at Alert Level 1. We encourage you to use face coverings on public transport and when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know, for example in supermarkets. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, it's important that you follow public health measures and consider others. Do everything you can to reduce the risk of transmission. COVID-19 is in New Zealand. Play it safe. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know when you’re in public places and retail stores. In other environments, such as your workplace, try to keep a 1 metre distance from others. Wear a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Wash your hands properly, and dry them. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and regularly disinfect surfaces. Keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Exercising safely There are times when it's important that you not be out and about. If you’re sick, stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 and get tested. If you have been told to self-isolate do so immediately. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are some situations when you do not have to wear them. Face coverings on public transport information If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, take extra care when you leave your house. Guidance for at-risk people --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, we recommend people stay at home as much as possible except for exercise, going to work or school, or visiting local services like the doctor, pharmacy or supermarket. If you’re over 70 or are at higher risk of severe illness should you contract COVID-19, you need to be especially careful. Guidance for at-risk people at Alert Level 3 Keep a 2 metre distance from other people at all times. Do not touch surfaces others may have touched — avoid park benches or playgrounds Do not travel far from home, especially not to baches or second homes Only shop for essential supplies Wash your hands regularly Stay local if you go out for exercise. More information about exercising safely You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are some situations when you do not have to wear them. Face coverings on public transport information Staying close to home is one of the most important things we can do to reduce the risk of spreading the disease. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered “local” will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. You can exercise at parks or beaches within your region, but the closer to home the better. Be safe while out exercising. Keep 2 metres away from anybody not in your bubble. Make minimal trips. Most of all during this time, we encourage you to continue to connect with one another. Stay in touch with your older relatives and vulnerable people, talk to your friends, whānau and neighbours over the phone and see if they need your support. Acts of kindness and maintaining these connections is essential while we work to stop the spread of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Local travel Regional travel
Home Travel and the border Travel within New Zealand Local travel --- Section Separator --- Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Wear a face covering At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering You legally must wear a face covering when you’re travelling anywhere on a domestic flight in New Zealand — this does not include private flights. There is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community at Alert Level 1. We encourage you to continue using a face covering on public transport. Wear a face covering At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way: Follow hygiene practices. Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you do not know, where possible. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. At other times, consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Minimise the number of places you stop on the way to your destination. Do not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Tips for minimising risk on public transport: Avoid sitting or standing next to someone you do not know, where possible. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are some situations when you do not have to wear them. Face coverings on public transport information You can use a private vehicle for transport. Please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine. Keep a 2 metre distance from other pedestrians. Take extra care if you need to step out into the street as there will be more traffic at Alert Level 2. If you’re healthy and do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Guidelines when travelling by taxi or ride-share: Stay home if you're sick. Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. Apart from the driver, only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing servic es need to wear a face covering. At Alert Level 3, travel is still restricted and is only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people, like in shops. Do not travel outside of your region unless your local area crosses a regional boundary. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. You can use public transport to travel within your local area, but only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school, but only if you cannot stay at home low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your extended bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are some situations when you do not have to wear them. Face coverings on public transport information We recommend you only travel in your car with people from your bubble. If you have to drive for essential reasons, please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your bubble. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services for only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your extended bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're in a taxi or ride-share. To help limit the spread of any virus, we recommend those who are unwell stay at home. If you're unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . All driver licences, warrants of fitness (WoFs), certificates of fitness (CoFs) and some vehicle certifications that expired on or after 1 January 2020 were extended until 10 October. This recognised that during Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3, through no fault of their own, many New Zealanders were unable to keep these documents up to date. This extension allowed vehicle users extra time to allow them to get up to date. As well as general hygiene guidance, there are some specific requirements while travelling in a taxi or ride-share. Please also follow any requests from the driver. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit a vehicle. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. Physical distancing between the driver and passengers is important, even in smaller vehicles. If you're a passenger, sit in the rear passenger seats only — avoid sitting in the front passenger seat next to the driver. Sit as far as possible from the driver. If you’re the sole passenger, sit in the rear left-hand side passenger seat, diagonally opposite the driver. The maximum number of passengers is the number of passenger seats in the back of the vehicle. Most cars normally have 3 rear passenger seats. You’re encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing services in Auckland legally must wear a face covering. If you are a passenger in a taxi of ride-share, we strongly encourage you to wear a face covering. Please follow any requests for providing contact tracing information if not already provided, for example, electronically through an app or booking system. More details about transport restrictions (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, you can travel but try to do it in a safe way. Public transport operators legally must display QR code posters to help you keep track of where you’ve been. We recommend you use the NZ COVID Tracer app to do this, or another way that works for you. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Wear a face covering You legally must wear a face covering when you’re travelling anywhere on a domestic flight in New Zealand — this does not include private flights. There is still a risk of COVID-19 returning to the community at Alert Level 1. We encourage you to continue using a face covering on public transport. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 2, you can travel, but make sure you do it in a safe way: Follow hygiene practices. Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you do not know, where possible. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. At other times, consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Minimise the number of places you stop on the way to your destination. Do not travel to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. Tips for minimising risk on public transport: Avoid sitting or standing next to someone you do not know, where possible. Do not travel if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are some situations when you do not have to wear them. Face coverings on public transport information You can use a private vehicle for transport. Please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine. Keep a 2 metre distance from other pedestrians. Take extra care if you need to step out into the street as there will be more traffic at Alert Level 2. If you’re healthy and do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services to travel anywhere in New Zealand. Guidelines when travelling by taxi or ride-share: Stay home if you're sick. Wash your hands before and after travelling. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. Apart from the driver, only travel with people you know, for example friends and family. Minimise the number of stops on the way to your destination. Consider wearing a face covering when you cannot maintain physical distance from people you do not know. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing servic es need to wear a face covering. --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 3, travel is still restricted and is only allowed for permitted movement in your local area — for example going to work or school, shopping, or getting exercise. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're outside your home and in a place where it’s hard to stay 2 metres away from other people, like in shops. Do not travel outside of your region unless your local area crosses a regional boundary. Your local area means the area near your home that you regularly visit for essential services. What is considered local will differ depending on where you live. City dwellers may have a supermarket or dairy close by. If you live rurally, you may need to take a drive to reach these. Remember, any unnecessary travel may spread COVID-19. You can use public transport to travel within your local area, but only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school, but only if you cannot stay at home low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your extended bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport. There are some situations when you do not have to wear them. Face coverings on public transport information We recommend you only travel in your car with people from your bubble. If you have to drive for essential reasons, please take care around anyone cycling or walking. Slow down and save lives. Walking and other active transport like cycling or scootering are fine, provided you keep a 2 metre distance from anybody outside of your bubble. If you do not have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you can use taxis and ride-sharing services for only for the following reasons: accessing local services and businesses going to work or school for those who have to low-risk exercise in your local area visiting people in your extended bubble travelling to permitted gatherings. You are strongly encouraged to wear a face covering when you're in a taxi or ride-share. --- Section Separator --- To help limit the spread of any virus, we recommend those who are unwell stay at home. If you're unwell and must travel, private transport is required. If that's not possible, call Healthline for guidance first on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- All driver licences, warrants of fitness (WoFs), certificates of fitness (CoFs) and some vehicle certifications that expired on or after 1 January 2020 were extended until 10 October. This recognised that during Alert Level 4 and Alert Level 3, through no fault of their own, many New Zealanders were unable to keep these documents up to date. This extension allowed vehicle users extra time to allow them to get up to date. --- Section Separator --- As well as general hygiene guidance, there are some specific requirements while travelling in a taxi or ride-share. Please also follow any requests from the driver. Where possible, use hand sanitiser before and after you enter or exit a vehicle. When you get home, wash your hands for at least 20 seconds with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. Physical distancing between the driver and passengers is important, even in smaller vehicles. If you're a passenger, sit in the rear passenger seats only — avoid sitting in the front passenger seat next to the driver. Sit as far as possible from the driver. If you’re the sole passenger, sit in the rear left-hand side passenger seat, diagonally opposite the driver. The maximum number of passengers is the number of passenger seats in the back of the vehicle. Most cars normally have 3 rear passenger seats. You’re encouraged to wear a face covering when you’re in a taxi or ride-share. Drivers of taxis and ride-sharing services in Auckland legally must wear a face covering. If you are a passenger in a taxi of ride-share, we strongly encourage you to wear a face covering. Please follow any requests for providing contact tracing information if not already provided, for example, electronically through an app or booking system. More details about transport restrictions (external link) --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Local travel Regional travel
Home Travel and the border Travel within New Zealand Regional travel --- Section Separator --- Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Wear a face covering If you’re living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you've been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you've visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Even when it is not a legal requirement, we encourage you to wear face coverings on public transport. Wear a face covering If you're sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your GP or Nurse Practitioner to find out if you should get a test. If you're advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses If you’re living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you’re sick, please don’t travel at all — stay home and get tested. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft. There are exceptions. Face coverings Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you don’t know, where possible. Do not travel: if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the aircraft. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small aircraft or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you’re allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. In the event of a COVID-19 resurgence, a regional Alert Level boundary could be put in place to ringfence a certain area where there is a higher risk of transmission – for example to separate an area at Alert Level 3 from other areas at Alert Level 2, as in Auckland in August 2020. Movement across any Alert Level 3 boundary would be strictly limited to manage the risk of the virus spreading. Permissions to travel across any Alert Level 3 boundary fall into three categories: Category 1 – movement that would be permitted under all circumstances, e.g. border services and emergency services Category 2 – movement likely to be permitted, but for which an assessment would be required, e.g. primary industries Category 3 – all other movement would be unlikely to be permitted, unless through a specific exemption issued by the Director-General of Health. The Ministry of Health and MBIE have developed an online registration system that could be activated for both businesses and services, and personal, movement across an Alert Level boundary. The system would enable businesses and services to register before any Alert Level increase came into effect, and automatically generate standardised, verifiable documentation to support Police enforcement and facilitate efficient movement through checkpoints. The system is ready to be activated in the event of an Alert Level 3 boundary, at which time more information will be published on the website of the approval agency: Business travel permissions – apply through www.business.govt.nz (external link) Personal movement exemptions – apply through www.health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- If you’re living at Alert Level 1, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 2, make sure you follow the restrictions and advice for that region. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep track of where you've been while travelling or on holiday, as you may not recall all the places you've visited. Face coverings legally must be worn: on all public transport to, from and through Auckland — including on long-distance bus and train journeys, as well as Auckland ferries on domestic flights throughout New Zealand by Auckland taxi and ride-share drivers — while it’s not compulsory for passengers to wear them, we strongly encourage you to. There are exemptions for some people. Even when it is not a legal requirement, we encourage you to wear face coverings on public transport. Wear a face covering If you're sick, stay home and do not travel. If you become unwell while on holiday or travelling away from home, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your GP or Nurse Practitioner to find out if you should get a test. If you're advised to get a test, do so from wherever you are in the country. Do not wait until you get home to get a test. Stay home if you're sick --- Section Separator --- At Alert Level 1, we still need to play it safe. We all need to be ready in case COVID-19 comes back into the community. To be ready at Alert Level 1: practise good hygiene stay home if you’re sick get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms keep track of where you’ve been and who you’ve seen. Get more advice on living at Alert Level 1, including keeping your distance, wearing face coverings and contact tracing for businesses --- Section Separator --- If you’re living at Alert Level 2, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand that is at Alert Level 1 or 2, but make sure you do it in a safe way. You legally must wear a face covering when travelling to, from or through an Alert Level 2 region on public transport, including flights. If you travel to a region that is at Alert Level 1, we encourage you to act as if you are carrying your Alert Level with you. Consider avoiding large gatherings, unless you’re going to a funeral or tangihanga. If you’re sick, please don’t travel at all — stay home and get tested. You legally must wear a face covering on public transport and aircraft. There are exceptions. Face coverings Keep records of what travel services you use. Keep track of who you have been in contact with. Keep your distance from groups of people you don’t know, where possible. Do not travel: if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, are awaiting a test or if you need to self-isolate to events which do not meet the requirements for gatherings at Alert Level 2. You can take a domestic flight for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe. Track your journey. Follow all the guidance from transport operators and crew. Sit only in your allocated seat onboard the aircraft. Maintain physical distancing where you can. You can fly a small aircraft or glider for recreation if you can do it safely. Keep a record of your journey. You can use the Cook Strait ferries for recreation and tourism. Follow guidance to stay safe, track your journey and follow these tips: Follow the instructions and guidance from crew and transport operators. Maintain physical distancing where you can. Comply with any temporary barriers and seat signage telling you where you’re allowed to sit. Maintain good hygiene all the time — wash your hands regularly, sneeze or cough into your elbow. --- Section Separator --- In the event of a COVID-19 resurgence, a regional Alert Level boundary could be put in place to ringfence a certain area where there is a higher risk of transmission – for example to separate an area at Alert Level 3 from other areas at Alert Level 2, as in Auckland in August 2020. Movement across any Alert Level 3 boundary would be strictly limited to manage the risk of the virus spreading. Permissions to travel across any Alert Level 3 boundary fall into three categories: Category 1 – movement that would be permitted under all circumstances, e.g. border services and emergency services Category 2 – movement likely to be permitted, but for which an assessment would be required, e.g. primary industries Category 3 – all other movement would be unlikely to be permitted, unless through a specific exemption issued by the Director-General of Health. The Ministry of Health and MBIE have developed an online registration system that could be activated for both businesses and services, and personal, movement across an Alert Level boundary. The system would enable businesses and services to register before any Alert Level increase came into effect, and automatically generate standardised, verifiable documentation to support Police enforcement and facilitate efficient movement through checkpoints. The system is ready to be activated in the event of an Alert Level 3 boundary, at which time more information will be published on the website of the approval agency: Business travel permissions – apply through www.business.govt.nz (external link) Personal movement exemptions – apply through www.health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Leaving your house Local travel Regional travel
Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. Advice to help you avoid scams exploiting COVID-19, and what to do if you're concerned about price rises. Data and statistics about COVID-19 cases and testing in New Zealand. You can also find data about clusters, locations of interest and managed isolation and quarantine. Find phone numbers for when you want help, advice or information. Get posters like the QR code poster, hygiene posters, physical distancing posters, and posters for the social sector and healthcare. Resources to help your business operate safely — including posters, signs and contact tracing registers. Resources you can use to help make summer unstoppable. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. Information and advice translated into different languages. Information and advice in other formats for people with particular accessibility needs. --- Section Separator --- Latest news and updates from the All-of-Government response to COVID-19. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. Advice to help you avoid scams exploiting COVID-19, and what to do if you're concerned about price rises. Data and statistics about COVID-19 cases and testing in New Zealand. You can also find data about clusters, locations of interest and managed isolation and quarantine. Find phone numbers for when you want help, advice or information. Get posters like the QR code poster, hygiene posters, physical distancing posters, and posters for the social sector and healthcare. Resources to help your business operate safely — including posters, signs and contact tracing registers. Resources you can use to help make summer unstoppable. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. Information and advice translated into different languages. Information and advice in other formats for people with particular accessibility needs.
Home Updates and resources Accessible information Easy Read --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. Alert Level 1 factsheet [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 14 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.1 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 10 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 14 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 2.4 MB] Visiting family and friends [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Visiting family and friends [PDF, 1 MB] Leaving your home and going out [DOCX, 6.7 MB] Leaving your home and going out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [DOCX, 3 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [PDF, 685 KB] Going to your appointments [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Going to your appointments [PDF, 1.2 MB] Going to work [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Going to work [PDF, 923 KB] Going back to school or university [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Going back to school or university [PDF, 996 KB] Travelling in NZ [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Travelling in NZ [PDF, 1.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] Information on wearing face coverings or face masks [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information on wearing face coverings or face masks [PDF, 1.1 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 14 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.1 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) [PDF, 1.4 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.4 MB] Staying in your bubble [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Staying in your bubble [PDF, 1.6 MB] Exercise [DOCX, 2.9 MB] Exercise [PDF, 1.3 MB] Working at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Working at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 951 KB] Golden rules for businesses [DOCX, 8.7 MB] Golden rules for businesses [PDF, 1.4 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [DOCX, 3.8 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [PDF, 1.1 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [DOCX, 3.9 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Using healthcare services [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Using healthcare services [PDF, 1.6 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [DOCX, 7.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.2 MB] Make summer unstoppable — Let's have a great summer [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Make summer unstoppable — Let's have a great summer [PDF, 1 MB] Information about coronavirus and COVID-19 [DOCX, 14 MB] Information about coronavirus and COVID-19 [PDF, 1.4 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [DOCX, 9.9 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [PDF, 1.7 MB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information [PDF, 850 KB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble [DOCX, 2.5 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble [PDF, 1.3 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 1 factsheet [DOCX, 5.6 MB] Alert Level 1 factsheet [PDF, 1.5 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 14 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.1 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] --- Section Separator --- Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 10 MB] Golden rules for businesses at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 1.3 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [DOCX, 14 MB] Living at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 2.4 MB] Visiting family and friends [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Visiting family and friends [PDF, 1 MB] Leaving your home and going out [DOCX, 6.7 MB] Leaving your home and going out [PDF, 1.5 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [DOCX, 3 MB] Funerals and tangihanga [PDF, 685 KB] Going to your appointments [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Going to your appointments [PDF, 1.2 MB] Going to work [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Going to work [PDF, 923 KB] Going back to school or university [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Going back to school or university [PDF, 996 KB] Travelling in NZ [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Travelling in NZ [PDF, 1.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information on wearing face coverings or face masks [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information on wearing face coverings or face masks [PDF, 1.1 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [DOCX, 14 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering or face mask? [PDF, 1.1 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [DOCX, 4.9 MB] What to do if you are exempt from wearing a face covering [PDF, 930 KB] Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) [PDF, 1.4 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Staying in your bubble [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Staying in your bubble [PDF, 1.6 MB] Exercise [DOCX, 2.9 MB] Exercise [PDF, 1.3 MB] Working at Alert Level 3 [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Working at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 951 KB] Golden rules for businesses [DOCX, 8.7 MB] Golden rules for businesses [PDF, 1.4 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [DOCX, 3.8 MB] What Alert Level 3 means for going to places like school and university [PDF, 1.1 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [DOCX, 3.9 MB] People at risk from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Using healthcare services [DOCX, 8.5 MB] Using healthcare services [PDF, 1.6 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [DOCX, 7.1 MB] Kāinga Ora — working with customers during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Make summer unstoppable — Let's have a great summer [DOCX, 3.2 MB] Make summer unstoppable — Let's have a great summer [PDF, 1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about coronavirus and COVID-19 [DOCX, 14 MB] Information about coronavirus and COVID-19 [PDF, 1.4 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [DOCX, 9.9 MB] How COVID-19 testing works [PDF, 1.7 MB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information [PDF, 850 KB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after yourself when you are sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble [DOCX, 2.5 MB] What to do if you feel unsafe in your bubble [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [DOCX, 1.1 MB] Information for people who are visitors in New Zealand from another country [PDF, 605 KB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [DOCX, 3.5 MB] Self-isolation and having a place to stay [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large print and audio
Home Updates and resources Accessible information Large print and audio --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 1 [DOCX, 92 KB] Living at Alert Level 1 [MP3, 1.6 MB] Information about Alert Levels 2 and 3, including golden rules for business, face coverings, staying safe and contact tracing. Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] Golden rules for business at Alert Levels 2 and 3 [DOCX, 71 KB] Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] Golden rules for business at Alert Levels 2 and 3 [MP3, 1.2 MB] Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] Information about COVID-19, including assessment and testing. COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] Assessment and testing [DOCX, 66 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 68 KB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.1 MB] Assessment and testing [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 3 MB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] NZ COVID Bluetooth Tracer App [DOCX, 95 KB] NZ COVID Bluetooth Tracer App — Full audio [MP3, 3.4 MB] Face coverings and masks — Updated 20 Nov 2020 Face coverings and masks — full audio [MP3, 1.8 MB] Contact details for a range of services that can support you during COVID-19. Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Information and advice on how people can look after their mental wellbeing. Looking after your mental wellbeing [PDF, 238 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 71 KB] Listen to mental wellbeing advice [MP3, 2.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Living at Alert Level 1 [DOCX, 92 KB] Living at Alert Level 1 [MP3, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about Alert Levels 2 and 3, including golden rules for business, face coverings, staying safe and contact tracing. Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] Golden rules for business at Alert Levels 2 and 3 [DOCX, 71 KB] Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] Golden rules for business at Alert Levels 2 and 3 [MP3, 1.2 MB] Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including assessment and testing. COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] Assessment and testing [DOCX, 66 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 68 KB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.1 MB] Assessment and testing [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 3 MB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] --- Section Separator --- NZ COVID Bluetooth Tracer App [DOCX, 95 KB] NZ COVID Bluetooth Tracer App — Full audio [MP3, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings and masks — Updated 20 Nov 2020 Face coverings and masks — full audio [MP3, 1.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- Contact details for a range of services that can support you during COVID-19. Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information and advice on how people can look after their mental wellbeing. Looking after your mental wellbeing [PDF, 238 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 71 KB] Listen to mental wellbeing advice [MP3, 2.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large print and audio
Home Updates and resources Contact a helpline --- Section Separator --- Call 111 immediately in an emergency. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Mental wellbeing helplines Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention helplines A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what the current Alert Level means for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. If you have questions or feedback about the NZ COVID Tracer app: call 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz If you have questions about managed isolation and quarantine, including charges and exemptions: call 0800 ISOMIQ ( 0800 476 647 ) from within New Zealand call +64 4 888 1670 from outside New Zealand or if you’re in New Zealand with an international SIM email enquiries@miq.govt.nz Many government agencies have language support available, if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Call 111 immediately in an emergency. --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 symptoms, call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . All calls to Healthline are free and someone is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. There are helplines available that offer support, information and help. All services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Mental wellbeing helplines Help and support is available if you are experiencing family violence or sexual violence. Family and sexual violence prevention helplines --- Section Separator --- A free helpline service is available for all New Zealand businesses. It can offer you: specific advice and access to Government business support advice on what the current Alert Level means for your business HR and general business advice and access to online resources and webinars connections to business advisory services. To find out more call 0800 500 362 for North Island, or 0800 50 50 96 for South Island. --- Section Separator --- If you have questions or feedback about the NZ COVID Tracer app: call 0800 800 606 email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz --- Section Separator --- If you have questions about managed isolation and quarantine, including charges and exemptions: call 0800 ISOMIQ ( 0800 476 647 ) from within New Zealand call +64 4 888 1670 from outside New Zealand or if you’re in New Zealand with an international SIM email enquiries@miq.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Many government agencies have language support available, if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages --- Section Separator --- If you’re deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Translations Accessible information
Home Updates and resources Data and statistics --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. You can get data on: the number of confirmed and probable cases of COVID-19 the location and source of active cases cases by district health board (DHB). Current COVID-19 cases (external link) You can get data on confirmed and probable cases by: ethnicity age and sex hospitalisation and intensive care COVID-19 case demographics (external link) Data on how the virus has spread in New Zealand, for example imported cases, locally acquired but linked to another case, or locally acquired with no known source. You can also get data on clusters of cases. Source of COVID-19 cases (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes data on: total tests completed tests by location, for example in managed isolation or by district health board tests by ethnicity testing rates, including testing by location, ethnicity, and age and sex. COVID-19 testing data (external link) Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest at a certain time, you may be classed as a ‘casual contact’. The Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you should do if you are a casual contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand (external link) Data and statistics about managed isolation and quarantine is published by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE). The data includes: daily data updates projected occupancy over the next 14 days number of people who have returned to New Zealand daily incident reports testing data and current COVID-19 cases in managed isolation and quarantine. Managed isolation and quarantine data (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. You can get data on: the number of confirmed and probable cases of COVID-19 the location and source of active cases cases by district health board (DHB). Current COVID-19 cases (external link) You can get data on confirmed and probable cases by: ethnicity age and sex hospitalisation and intensive care COVID-19 case demographics (external link) Data on how the virus has spread in New Zealand, for example imported cases, locally acquired but linked to another case, or locally acquired with no known source. You can also get data on clusters of cases. Source of COVID-19 cases (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes data on: total tests completed tests by location, for example in managed isolation or by district health board tests by ethnicity testing rates, including testing by location, ethnicity, and age and sex. COVID-19 testing data (external link) Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. If you visited a location of interest at a certain time, you may be classed as a ‘casual contact’. The Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you should do if you are a casual contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Data and statistics about managed isolation and quarantine is published by the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE). The data includes: daily data updates projected occupancy over the next 14 days number of people who have returned to New Zealand daily incident reports testing data and current COVID-19 cases in managed isolation and quarantine. Managed isolation and quarantine data (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Translations Accessible information
Displaying 1-10 of 173 updates 28 Dec 2020 An additional test for COVID-19 will be required for returnees from higher risk countries on their arrival in New Zealand from midnight 31 December 2020. 23 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 21 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 18 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 18 Dec 2020 The Government has set aside extra funding to support the health system’s COVID-19 response and to maintain quarantine facilities up to June 2022. 17 Dec 2020 Two new vaccines have been secured, enough for every New Zealander. We are now on track to deliver first vaccines to border workers in the 2nd quarter of 2021. 17 Dec 2020 New Zealand is preparing to support our Pacific partners to access safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines at the earliest opportunity. 16 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Dec 2020 The Government’s COVID-19 team, and the national support network, has a resurgence plan in place to manage any community cases over summer. 15 Dec 2020 The Government is putting in place support for affected businesses in case there is a resurgence of COVID-19.
New virus variants and ongoing high rates of diseases in some countries prompt additional border protections. Extra (day zero or day one) test to be in place this week. New ways of reducing risk before people embark on travel being investigated, including pre-departure testing for people leaving the United Kingdom for New Zealand, with a view to implementing added measures from mid-January; other higher risk countries to be considered on a case-by-case basis. An additional test for COVID-19 will be required for returnees from higher risk countries such as the United Kingdom on their arrival in New Zealand from midnight on 31 December, was announced today. The extra PCR test will be applied when returnees who’ve been in the United Kingdom or the United States during the preceding 14 days arrive at a managed isolation and quarantine facility. This new testing will be in addition to the current day three and day 12 tests. The returnees will also be required to be in isolation or quarantine in their allocated room at a facility until their initial test has returned a result. This means if the result is positive they will be transferred to a quarantine facility effectively several days earlier than under the standard two-test regime. The changes will be in force from midnight on 31 December. New Zealand has been monitoring overseas developments very closely, and, like many other countries, has heightened concerns about the new variants of the virus and their potential to spread more rapidly, and the ongoing high rates of infection in some countries. Asymptomatic people coming across the border are subsequently picked up in day three testing, so this will pick them up as early as possible. It will also help identify earlier anyone who sat close to them on flights. While growing travel restrictions are being imposed in countries that host airport hubs and by airlines themselves – which block routes to New Zealand for the overwhelming majority of travellers from higher risk countries – the New Zealand Government is taking this extra precautionary step to provide another layer of protection and to support our goal of making summer unstoppable. Our 14-day managed quarantine and isolation regime is providing one of the strongest border defences anywhere in the world. These additional requirements for returnees from higher risk countries will provide extra safety for people working in the facilities and greater assurance for New Zealand generally. Keeping the virus out remains our biggest protection and as we’ve done all along, we regularly review our settings and make changes where they will make a difference. Plans for pre-departure risk reduction measures, including testing for people leaving the United Kingdom for New Zealand, are currently being worked on, with a view to implementing them from mid-January. These include selecting the most effective forms of testing in the circumstances. Additional risk measures for other countries are also being considered. Returnees will still need to go through our 14-day managed isolation and quarantine process, on arrival in New Zealand. We’re aware this would present an extra hurdle for Kiwis planning to return and we’re not considering this lightly. We’re going beyond what we’ve done in the past, to stay ahead of what appears to be a worsening situation globally and, in doing so, we would reduce the risk of COVID-19 spreading during transit and entering our managed isolation facilities. An eventual safe travel zone with Australia and Realm countries will ultimately mean fewer people from lower risk countries staying in our managed isolation facilities, thereby allowing more people from higher risk countries to arrive. Additional offshore risk measures including pre-departure testing would help us prepare for the increased risk such arrivals will bring to our facilities and to incoming flights. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has provided further information about the new testing requirements for those traveling from high risk countries. From 11:59pm on 31 December 2020 anyone arriving into New Zealand from the UK or USA will be required to: have a COVID-19 test on day 0, i.e. when they first arrive into managed isolation remain in their room until the result of that test is complete As now, if they are symptomatic on arrival they will go straight to a quarantine facility. We’ve been monitoring overseas developments very closely, and, like many other countries, have heightened concerns about the new variants of the virus and their potential to spread more rapidly. It is an extra precautionary step to provides another layer of protection for New Zealand from COVID-19. It will be the same PCR nasal swab that people currently receive but is in addition to the existing day 3 and day 12 tests. It usually takes 24-48 hours. People will be contacted directly if positive. They will be sent a text if negative. People will complete the remainder of their 14 days managed isolation as normal. They will be required to undertake a further test about day 3 of their stay and again about day 12 before they leave. If the result is positive the person will be transferred to a quarantine facility. This is several days earlier than previously would have been the case. The Government is preparing to require people travelling from the high risk locations to also have a pre-departure COVID-19 test. More details on this will be announced separately. For the latest COVID-19 updates, please visit www.health.govt.nz (external link) For more information about managed isolation and quarantine, please visit www.miq.govt.nz (external link)
On Monday, Air New Zealand told the Ministry of Health of a possible case of COVID-19 in a staff member who is now in China. This person has now tested positive for COVID-19. This person visited several places on Friday 20 November and Saturday 21 November before they left New Zealand. The Ministry of Health is following public health protocols and investigating this case as if this were a confirmed case in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The locations of interest are: Animates Manukau Resene in Mount Roskill BP Connect in Mangere Countdown Papatoetoe New World Papatoetoe a pharmacy at Countdown Greenlane Auckland Regional Public Health Service keeps these locations of interest up to date, and advises you what you should do if you visited these places at certain times on Friday 20 and Saturday 21 November. Locations of interest, and what you should do (external link)
The NZ COVID Tracer app has been updated to include Bluetooth tracing technology. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing is not intended to replace our existing contact tracing processes or the NZ COVID Tracer QR codes. You still need to scan QR codes to keep track of where you’ve been. Bluetooth tracing is an added tool — it helps keep track of the people we’ve been near. When you enable Bluetooth tracing, your privacy is always protected — it cannot share your location, your name or anything else about you. All the contact tracing information you collect with the app is held securely on your phone, and it’s always your choice what information you choose to share. How Bluetooth tracing works, and how to turn it on Download the NZ COVID Tracer app
Speakers: Minister for COVID Response Hon Chris Hipkins Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay. --- Section Separator --- An Air New Zealand staff member has tested positive for COVID-19 while in China. The Ministry of Health is following public health protocols and investigating this case as if this were a confirmed case in New Zealand. This person visited several places on Friday 20 November and Saturday 21 November before they left New Zealand. Locations of interest, and what you should do if you visited them (external link) If you are concerned about the recent COVID-19 case, you can call Healthline for support and advice about getting tested. 0800 358 5453
The Government is providing certainty to businesses and workers about what support will be available in the event of a resurgence of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- This includes a new Resurgence Support Payment to help businesses directly affected when there’s a move to Alert Level 2 or above for a week or more. This will help sectors like hospitality and events, who face particular disruptions as Alert Levels change. This recognises that some businesses face one-off costs or impacts to cashflow when we step up an Alert Level to follow public health advice. The payment is structured to provide most support to smaller firms who are most likely to face cashflow issues, but will be available to all businesses and sole traders. The payment would include a core per business rate of $1,500 plus $400 per employee up to a total of 50 FTEs ($21,500). Firms that experience a 30% drop in revenue over a 14-day period will be eligible. --- Section Separator --- The Wage Subsidy Scheme has been very effective in keeping people in work so far with more than $14 billion paid out to protect 1.8 million jobs. It will continue to be available at Alert Levels 3 and 4. Cabinet has also asked the Minister of Justice to revisit options on future commercial tenancy negotiation support — this will be discussed by Cabinet early next year. --- Section Separator --- The Leave Support Scheme will remain in place and include a new short-term absence payment to cover eligible workers who need to stay at home for 1 to 3 days while awaiting a COVID-19 test result. This will be a one-off payment of $350 to employers, available in early 2021. --- Section Separator --- Other support retained includes the Business Finance Guarantee Scheme, which is being extended to June 2021 with additional availability and flexibility, and Small Business Cashflow Scheme, which has also recently been extended.
Funding to support the COVID-19 health response and quarantine facilities for a further 18 months Money drawn down from the COVID-19 contingency fund Further improvements to health response administration and governance Lessons learned on surveillance and testing As we move into 2021 there are exciting developments on the vaccine and safe travel zone fronts. But we also need our health system to have sufficient capacity and support to maintain effective levels of contact tracing and testing, and for managed isolation and quarantine facilities to be fully resourced for our overall elimination strategy to work. That requires cash injections for the Ministry of Health, DHBs and agencies working at the quarantine facilities to provide funding certainty. Funding agreed by Cabinet will pay for a series of COVID-19-related health activities to June 2022, including: Maintaining up to 7000 tests a day including swabbing and laboratory services. Contact tracing, supplies of PPE and supporting technology. Additional support for the Ministry, and for DHBs on an as-needed basis. The additional funding of $1.12 billion adds to the $251 million injection provided to health in October. Further additional funding of $1.74 billion, split across the agencies involved, will ensure the MIQ operating model is fully resourced up to June 2022, including the costs of accommodation, transport, food, security and health and wellbeing services. These are significant investments that are critical to keeping our defences strong. Keeping COVID-19 out and quickly managing any incursions that do occur is an expensive business but it’s the best investment we can make for our health and our economy. As well as continuing high levels of frontline delivery, the extra health funding will enable the Ministry to enhance its oversight and policy roles and other activities through a new COVID-19 Response Directorate and to continue to make improvements to the way it operates. That includes a focus on improved Information Technology. New functions being developed include a greater role in research, more capacity to undertake infection, prevention and control audits and a beefed up policy and strategy unit. --- Section Separator --- Throughout our response to COVID-19 so far, we’ve adopted a mind-set of driving constant review and improvement in the face of an unpredictable and fast evolving situation. The system of multiple interconnected agencies and portfolios is complex but has stood up well overall. Continual improvements have and continue to be made – but making substantial changes at the same time as focusing on keeping COVID-19 out has been a challenge. With much-improved testing, contact tracing and border control now in place however, the Government is in a position to consolidate and strengthen administration and governance of the response. This is increasingly essential to meet the added complexity of keeping New Zealanders safe, implementing the biggest immunisation programme in our history, while further stimulating the economy and managing a staged opening of our borders. The updated approach, to be in place by March 2021, involves: Strategic leadership and central coordination to be led by a COVID-19 Response unit, building on existing all-of-government functions in the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. The public health response, including strengthened surveillance and testing, and public health advice, to be managed by the Ministry of Health. End-to-end management of our borders, including links to MIQs, led by a Border Executive Board of interdepartmental chief executives. --- Section Separator --- In August, the Government established an Advisory Committee, chaired by Sir Brian Roche and Heather Simpson, to review testing and surveillance systems and propose improvements. This was followed in October by a review of contact tracing performance, also led by Sir Brian Roche. The reports are independent and between them contain 28 recommendations, of which 25 are for the Ministry of Health. Overall, the Committee found that by the time the reports were being written, the required improvements, including border testing, were under way. Cabinet has this week considered an update from the Ministry and other agencies on progress against the recommendations. Actions on five of the recommendations have been completed, with 23 underway. The Ministry has all year been at the heart of a massive response to a global pandemic that a year ago no-one could have foreseen. It has continued to improve and adapt its response to COVID-19, while delivering on its many other obligations. New Zealanders should have confidence in the containment of recent community cases to date as a result of a stronger Ministry response and the hard work of public health units. Related documents Review of New Zealand's COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy [PDF, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Testing Advisory Notes [PDF, 752 KB] Reports provided by members to the co-chairs [PDF, 2.2 MB] Declaration of Interests – Rawiri McKree Jansen [PDF, 918 KB] Declaration of Interests – Dr Apisalome Talemaitoga [PDF, 1.3 MB] Declaration of Interests – Philip Hill [PDF, 618 KB]
After the year we’ve had, we all need a classic summer break we can enjoy. Whether it’s days at the cricket, at the beach or at the backyard barbecue with whānau and friends, we all want to be able to enjoy this summer without the interruption of COVID-19. We’ve all got a part to play to bring on an ‘unstoppable summer’. Everyone can make a difference by continuing with the good hygiene behaviours that have allowed us to hold back the virus so far. The ‘make summer unstoppable’ campaign reinforces the basics: wash or sanitise your hands scan QR codes turn on Bluetooth tracing on the NZ COVID Tracer app stay home if you’re sick and get advice on whether to take a test. We’re also asking businesses and venues to actively encourage their customers to scan QR codes. Christmas and the holiday season is a time of the year when people come together socially more often; there are more large-scale events; and people move around the country in bigger numbers. That’s why our focus to ‘make summer unstoppable’ is all about reminding and motivating everyone to keep doing the easy, everyday actions which will keep us free of COVID-19. As a country we’ve all worked exceptionally hard to stop COVID-19. Let’s continue to stop COVID-19 so that we can make summer unstoppable. How to make summer unstoppable Unstoppable summer toolkit — get posters and other assets for your business or event
The summer planning approach supports New Zealand’s elimination strategy to keep COVID-19 out. If we find it, we will stamp it out. To manage any community cases over the holidays, the Government’s COVID-19 team and the national support network are ready. The summer holiday period poses unique challenges in responding to an outbreak of COVID-19. Large numbers of people will be travelling for holidays or seasonal work, there are more social gatherings and large events such as festivals — and like other Kiwis, there will be health system workers taking well-deserved leave. New Zealanders can be reassured the planning has been extensive and has included scenario testing and understanding the actions that might be needed, including, as a last resort, Alert Level changes. More about our national COVID-19 summer resurgence plan --- Section Separator --- If a positive case were found in the community, we would use the usual approach to communicating with the public — updates and advice from the Prime Minister, the COVID-19 Response Minister and/or the Director-General of Health (or his delegate). The Government’s planning has revolved around 3 broad scenarios. In each of these scenarios, extensive contingency plans are in place. We have learnt from previous cases and regional lockdowns and used that knowledge to refine our plans and preparations. We know what to do. Read about the 3 scenarios in the resurgence plan --- Section Separator --- The health system is standing ready. People and resources are on call. Our supply chains are stocked. Government agencies are tightly connected and have worked closely with local government, iwi and community leaders, Civil Defence and Emergency Management and the private sector to ensure a fully coordinated response. People in remote locations where there is limited cellphone coverage would very likely be safe from exposure to COVID-19, but would need to follow public health advice upon return from those locations — this is a personal responsibility. --- Section Separator --- In a worst-case scenario, if it became clear there was a high risk of widespread transmission, you would need to stay where you are in your bubble until you get official advice. We do not want people rushing home and possibly taking the virus with them. It’s important to remember that this is a worst-case scenario. After a long, hard year, we all deserve to enjoy our summer, including those who are working hard through the holidays to keep us safe. Let’s thank them by doing our bit to stop the spread of COVID-19. And if we’re going away on a break, we should also think about what we would do if we were required to stay at our holiday location while we wait for official advice. That might mean a backup plan for homes or pets if we cannot get home straight away. More about our national COVID-19 summer resurgence plan
Today it was confirmed that $75 million of Official Development Assistance had been earmarked to support Pacific and global vaccine access and roll-out. Pacific countries have worked hard to keep COVID-19 out, or to stamp it out, and New Zealand has been committed to supporting them in this. But their success has been hard-won. A safe and effective vaccine will be key to the region’s economic and social recovery. New Zealand is pursuing a portfolio of potential COVID-19 vaccines to ensure there is flexibility and choice in the fast-moving global marketplace. This will ensure Pacific countries can also access suitable options, and have the support they need to run successful immunisation campaigns. The support will be flexible, given the uncertainties around vaccine development. New Zealand’s approach will be to purchase sufficient vaccines to cover the Realm of New Zealand (Tokelau, Niue, Cook Islands) and our Polynesian neighbours (Samoa, Tonga, Tuvalu) should their governments wish to take these up. New Zealand is best placed to support these countries directly because of our constitutional relationships in the Realm, and the strong links between our health systems and our close people-to-people ties across Polynesia. New Zealand will also be scaling up existing health investments to play our part in vaccine roll-out. Included in the $75m support package, New Zealand plans to make a further $10m contribution to the COVAX Facility Advance Market Commitment, which is the key multilateral mechanism that has emerged to support equitable global access. New Zealand is also ready to contribute to wider Pacific regional initiatives as they take shape.
2 additional vaccines secured 15 million vaccine courses pre-ordered to date Vaccines will be free to the public Medsafe processes streamlined for timeliness Readiness for largest ever immunisation programme progressing well Systems on track to deliver first vaccines to border workers in in the 2nd quarter of 2021, with vaccination of general population in second half of the year. COVID-19 vaccine strategy at a glance [PDF, 66 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Government will purchase COVID-19 vaccines from pharmaceutical companies AstraZeneca and Novavax, meaning every New Zealander will be able to be vaccinated. The new agreements secure access to 7.6 million doses from AstraZeneca — enough for 3.8 million people, and 10.72 million doses from Novavax — enough for 5.36 million people. Both vaccines require two doses to be administered. The four pre-purchase agreements secured to date are: 750,000 courses from Pfizer/BioNTech; 5 million courses from Janssen; 3.8 million courses from the University of Oxford/AstraZeneca; and 5.36 million courses from Novavax. There are multiple types of vaccine technology that have been used to develop COVID-19 vaccines. Our strategy has been to purchase different types of technology, to ensure if some are found in development or in trials not to be a successful option we will have alternatives available. We now have agreements in place with four providers, covering three different types of vaccine technology and we have secured more than enough doses to cover our entire population plus the Pacific. The AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines announced today complement our other purchases, and are compatible with existing infrastructure and storage facilities in New Zealand. If proven to be safe and effective by New Zealand’s pharmaceuticals regulator Medsafe, they will provide broad population coverage for New Zealand and our Pacific neighbours. Eventually, everyone in the country will have access to a vaccine free of charge. --- Section Separator --- This will be New Zealand’s largest immunisation roll out ever. Most countries are factoring the roll out to take all of 2021 and some of 2022 to complete due to its scale and complexity, also due to production and delivery timeframes. The first priority will be to vaccinate border workers and essential staff who are at the greatest risk of getting COVID-19. Vaccines are expected to be delivered to front line workers in the second quarter of 2021. The aim is to then commence vaccination of the general public in the second half of the year. All vaccine roll out will be dependent on Medsafe sign off, which we are streamlining, and speed of manufacture. We are moving as fast as we can, but we also want to ensure the vaccine is safe for New Zealanders. Never before has the entire globe sought to vaccinate the entire population at the same time. This will be a sustained roll out over months not weeks but our pre-purchase agreements means New Zealand is well positioned to get on with it as soon as it is proven safe to do so. The agreements ensure that we are invested in a range of options and that we’re not putting all of our eggs into one basket. As there are no guarantees that all the vaccines will successfully complete clinical trials, or be approved for use, this approach ensures we are able to access safe and effective vaccines at the earliest possible time. Our plan is to ensure no-one misses out, even if it means we’ve purchased more than we need. It’s an investment worth making. The world of vaccine development is dynamic. While we’re confident our four agreements place us in an excellent position, we’re not ruling out other purchases if required. The Government’s portfolio approach works alongside other aspects of the COVID-19 Vaccine Strategy, including membership of the global COVAX Facility, which is also an avenue for securing vaccines. --- Section Separator --- Preparations are well in hand to gear up for what would be New Zealand’s largest ever immunisation programme. New Zealand has never before attempted an immunisation programme of this scale and complexity. We’re putting all of the building blocks in place to make it run as seamlessly as possible. Workforce planning to ensure we have enough vaccinators is well advanced. There are around 12,000 health professionals already able to administer vaccines and more will be trained. And, as part of the new National Immunisation Solution, the Ministry of Health will have an inventory management system for COVID-19 vaccines with accurate information about where they are located and the temperature in central storage facilities. This will enable us to track and trace COVID-19 vaccines and consumables, including their expiry dates, to reduce wastage. The Ministry has also purchased nine large minus 80 degree Celsius freezers that can store more than 1.5 million doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. They are on track to arrive by the end of the year. --- Section Separator --- The start of COVID-19 immunisation will not mean any changes to our borders initially. Our border remains the first line of defence against COVID-19 from imported cases. To make any decisions around borders we need to be confident that the New Zealand population is sufficiently protected. It means we will need information on whether the COVID-19 vaccines are effective at providing individuals with protection from contracting the virus and reducing transmission – and a gradual building towards population immunity, which will take time. Our technical advisory teams will be monitoring data from clinical trials and learning from the experience of other countries. --- Section Separator --- Currently, given we have no community transmission, the first group who would be immunised are those most at risk of being exposed to COVID-19. This includes the border and MIQ workforce, the COVID-19 frontline healthcare workers, and their household contacts. This will further strengthen our border. The aim of this approach is to create a layer of protection around the country to prevent any spread of COVID-19 into our communities. Officials are continuing to review the evidence, and monitor information about the vaccine characteristics, so we will continue to provide updates on the approach to sequencing as we get more information. We’re aiming to start vaccinating this group during the second quarter of 2021, followed by the public, in stages, from the third quarter. We’re factoring into our planning a large number of complex and interconnected individual strands, including the safety approval process, global supply chains, as well as lead-in times to manufacture and ship vaccines in bulk quantities. Sequencing the roll out of COVID-19 vaccines [PDF, 33 KB] --- Section Separator --- Medsafe has agreed to allow pharmaceutical companies to make rolling applications for their COVID-19 vaccines, which means they may submit their data as it is completed and ready for assessment to speed up the process. Pfizer and BioNTech and Janssen have already started to submit data, and timing around Medsafe’s approval process depends on many factors, such as the data that companies provide and whether it meets internationally agreed criteria for safety and efficacy. Medsafe has streamlined its assessment processes and is prioritising the assessment of COVID-19 vaccines over other pharmaceuticals to obtain a vaccine more quickly, but there will be no compromise on the safety of the vaccine. Medsafe will remain in close contact with its Australian counterpart throughout.
There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) There will be no media release tomorrow, Tuesday 15 December. The Ministry of Health publishes media releases on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday.
There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) There will be no media release tomorrow, Thursday 17 December. The Ministry of Health publishes media releases on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday.
There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- On Monday, Air New Zealand told the Ministry of Health of a possible case of COVID-19 in a staff member who is now in China. This person has now tested positive for COVID-19. This person visited several places on Friday 20 November and Saturday 21 November before they left New Zealand. The Ministry of Health is following public health protocols and investigating this case as if this were a confirmed case in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The locations of interest are: Animates Manukau Resene in Mount Roskill BP Connect in Mangere Countdown Papatoetoe New World Papatoetoe a pharmacy at Countdown Greenlane Auckland Regional Public Health Service keeps these locations of interest up to date, and advises you what you should do if you visited these places at certain times on Friday 20 and Saturday 21 November. Locations of interest, and what you should do (external link)
There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health has published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. Update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- On Monday, Air New Zealand told the Ministry of Health of a possible case of COVID-19 in a staff member who is now in China. This person has now tested positive for COVID-19. This person visited several places on Friday 20 November and Saturday 21 November before they left New Zealand. The Ministry of Health is following public health protocols and investigating this case as if this were a confirmed case in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest in Auckland, and what you should do
Displaying 11-20 of 173 updates 14 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 13 Dec 2020 The 'Make summer unstoppable’ campaign to keep COVID-19 at bay was launched on 13 December. 11 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 Dec 2020 Turn on Bluetooth tracing in your app to anonymously receive an alert if you’ve been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. 09 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 131-140 of 173 updates 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 141-150 of 173 updates 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community.
Displaying 151-160 of 173 updates 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm.
Displaying 161-170 of 173 updates 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 10 Jun 2020 Read the latest update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials.
Displaying 171-173 of 173 updates 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 21-30 of 173 updates 01 Dec 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Nov 2020 These places are locations of interest because a person who may have COVID-19 visited them. 24 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 31-40 of 173 updates 19 Nov 2020 The Government has made an in-principle agreement with Janssen Pharmaceutica to buy up to 5 million COVID-19 vaccine doses. 18 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 16 Nov 2020 Masks will need to be worn on all public transport in Auckland and in and out of Auckland and on domestic flights throughout the country from this Thursday. 16 Nov 2020 Watch the COVID-19 media conference with government officials and ministers. 16 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 13 Nov 2020 New Zealand is still at Alert Level 1. There are no new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 13 Nov 2020 Watch the COVID-19 media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Nov 2020 There are 3 new cases of COVID-19 to report in New Zealand today. 12 Nov 2020 Watch the COVID-19 media conferences with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 41-50 of 173 updates 11 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Nov 2020 New Zealand has access to 1.5 million doses of the Pfizer BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, which has received promising results from clinical trials. 10 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Nov 2020 Watch the 1pm media conference with government officials and ministers. 08 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 Nov 2020 The Ministry of Health is confirming 1 new case of COVID-19 in a worker in the Auckland quarantine facility. 06 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 51-60 of 173 updates 03 Nov 2020 The Ministry of Health has confirmed a second worker at the Sudima managed isolation facility in Christchurch has tested positive for COVID-19. 03 Nov 2020 The trial will help the Ministry of Health understand how well the contact tracing cards perform in a real-world scenario. 03 Nov 2020 Watch the 1pm media conference with government officials and ministers. 02 Nov 2020 The Ministry of Health has confirmed 1 new managed isolation-related case in Christchurch in the community. 02 Nov 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 Oct 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 Oct 2020 Tips for staying safe while you’re out and about on Halloween, including getting a QR code poster for your house. 29 Oct 2020 Read today’s update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Oct 2020 There was no media conference today. The Ministry of Health published a media release with an update on COVID-19 cases. 27 Oct 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Home Updates and resources Legislation and key documents --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 68 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels — updated 14 December 2020 [PDF, 274 KB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] Unstoppable summer: our plan to manage COVID-19 [PDF, 271 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Proactive release Proactive release Translations Accessible information
Home Updates and resources Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Beware of misinformation on social media and other sources. Only share information from official sources. Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the virus. You can always find find accurate and timely information on our website and through our social channels. Social media and newsletters The World Health Organization also provides a comprehensive list of COVID-19 information, including common misconceptions and misinformation. COVID-19 advice for the public: Mythbusters (external link) Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 have been noted overseas and are expected to be seen in New Zealand. They may arrive in the form of an email, text, phone call or through social media. For more information on what to watch out for and where to report scams, visit the following websites: COVID-19 investment scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) COVID-19 phishing and cyber scams: CERT (external link) General COVID-19 scam information: CFFC (external link) Netsafe website (external link) Scamwatch: Consumer protection website (external link) It is not illegal for businesses to increase their prices; however, the Fair Trading Act prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct and false representations. This means that if a business gives a reason for a price increase it legally must be true, otherwise the business risks breaching the law. If you suspect a business is providing false or misleading information as to why prices have increased, you can make a complaint to the Commerce Commission. Make a complaint on the Commerce Commission website (external link) Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on essential goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) --- Section Separator --- Beware of misinformation on social media and other sources. Only share information from official sources. Misinformation works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the virus. You can always find find accurate and timely information on our website and through our social channels. Social media and newsletters The World Health Organization also provides a comprehensive list of COVID-19 information, including common misconceptions and misinformation. COVID-19 advice for the public: Mythbusters (external link) --- Section Separator --- Scams and frauds exploiting COVID-19 have been noted overseas and are expected to be seen in New Zealand. They may arrive in the form of an email, text, phone call or through social media. For more information on what to watch out for and where to report scams, visit the following websites: COVID-19 investment scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) COVID-19 phishing and cyber scams: CERT (external link) General COVID-19 scam information: CFFC (external link) Netsafe website (external link) Scamwatch: Consumer protection website (external link) --- Section Separator --- It is not illegal for businesses to increase their prices; however, the Fair Trading Act prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct and false representations. This means that if a business gives a reason for a price increase it legally must be true, otherwise the business risks breaching the law. If you suspect a business is providing false or misleading information as to why prices have increased, you can make a complaint to the Commerce Commission. Make a complaint on the Commerce Commission website (external link) Complete the Price Watch form if you have concerns about price increases on essential goods or services. Price Watch form (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Translations Accessible information
Home Updates and resources Posters --- Section Separator --- Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour — just adjust your printer settings. Get your QR code poster All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] Wearing a face covering is encouraged (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 85 KB] E whakatenatenahia ana te mau uwhi mata | Wearing a face covering is encouraged (Pae Mataara 1 | Alert Level 1) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 87 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to wear a face covering safely How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to make a face covering Wash and dry your hands (simple) — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At Alert Level 2, your workplace legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need an alternative system to record workers. There is no requirement at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. You can use these templates at your workplace: Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you're waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and dry your hands poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster (Alert Level 2) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 115 KB] You must wear a face covering [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please don't sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] Testing station parking poster A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Testing station parking poster A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour — just adjust your printer settings. --- Section Separator --- Get your QR code poster All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. When you’re ready to display your QR code poster, you can also display posters encouraging people to use the NZ COVID Tracer app: Please scan in [PDF, 87 KB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app — A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — English [PDF, 1.5 MB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] Wearing a face covering is encouraged (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 85 KB] E whakatenatenahia ana te mau uwhi mata | Wearing a face covering is encouraged (Pae Mataara 1 | Alert Level 1) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 87 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to wear a face covering safely How to make your own face covering — no sewing [PDF, 81 KB] How to sew your own face covering [PDF, 160 KB] You can also view this content as a web page. How to make a face covering Wash and dry your hands (simple) — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Washing and drying your hands kills the virus — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Cough or sneeze into your elbow — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Stay home if you are sick — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects — A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- You might find it useful to display these posters in visible places. Posters can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A4 [PDF, 1.7 MB] Download NZ COVID Tracer contact tracing app poster A3 [PDF, 1.7 MB] At Alert Level 2, your workplace legally must also have an alternative system for customers who do not use the NZ COVID Tracer app. Petrol stations, supermarkets and transport stations only need an alternative system to record workers. There is no requirement at Alert Level 1, but it's still a good idea to have one. You can use these templates at your workplace: Contact tracing register — for staff to take down visitors’ details [PDF, 199 KB] Contact tracing register — individual entries for a ballot box [PDF, 1.5 MB] We recommend you display a privacy statement alongside your alternative system. Example privacy statement 1 metre distance — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 metre distance poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] If you're waiting to collect goods, stay 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One at a time in our store please poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] One in, one out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep 1 metre apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please wait behind this line — floor sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] 1 person max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 2 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 3 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] 4 people max — keep 2 metres apart poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Lift limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Room limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Site limited to number of people poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Wash and dry your hands poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way in poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Sanitise on your way out poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Be kind: please be patient with our staff while we deliver this service for you [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please keep our workplace safe poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Attention visitors and couriers, please wait at reception poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kitchen closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Premises closed poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Closed for cleaning [PDF, 82 KB] Track your journey poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster (Alert Level 2) [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely poster (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 115 KB] You must wear a face covering [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Please don't sit here poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Only sit here if you know the person next to you poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] This desk is closed — desk sign [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Testing station parking poster A4 [PDF, 1.4 MB] Testing station parking poster A3 [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Translations Accessible information
Home Updates and resources Social media and newsletters --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) Sign up to the latest updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) --- Section Separator --- Sign up to the latest updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Social media community guidelines Social media community guidelines Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Translations Accessible information
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources --- Section Separator --- Taku puka-iti mō NZ COVID Tracer | My NZ COVID Tracer booklet [PDF, 2.7 MB] The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please don't share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] E whakatenatenahia ana te mau uwhi mata (Pae Mataara 1) | Wearing a face covering is encouraged ( Alert Level 1 ) [PDF, 87 KB] E whakatenatenahia ana te mau uwhi mata (Pae Mataara 1) | Wearing a face covering is encouraged ( Alert Level 1 ) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 87 KB] Me mau rawa koe i tētahi uwhi matai mata (Pae Mataara 2) | You must wear a face covering ( Alert Level 2 ) [PDF, 97 KB] Me mau rawa koe i tētahi uwhi matai mata (Pae Mataara 2) | You must wear a face covering ( Alert Level 2 ) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 97 KB] Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kia haumaru tonu ō tātou whānau | Keep our whānau safe [PDF, 99 KB] Me mihi i tawhiti | Greet from a distance [PDF, 82 KB] Whāia ōu tapuwae | Track your journey [PDF, 125 KB] Kia haumaru te haere (Pae Mataara 1) | Travel safely (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 119 KB] Kia haumaru te haere (Pae Mataara 1) | Travel safely (Alert Level 1) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 120 KB] --- Section Separator --- Taku puka-iti mō NZ COVID Tracer | My NZ COVID Tracer booklet [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- The Guidance for marae handbook is designed to tautoko whānau, hapū and iwi in managing the COVID-19 safety of manuhiri and tangata whenua at the marae. Whether your role at the marae is front of the house (te amorangi ki mua) or at the back (te hāpai ō ki muri), this handbook will help. Guidance for marae handbook [PDF, 4.7 MB] Nau mai haere mai [PDF, 213 KB] Please scan in — Always use the NZ COVID Tracer app to keep our whānau and marae safe [PDF, 275 KB] 100 people max, at Alert Level 2 [PDF, 263 KB] 10 people max, at Alert Level 3 [PDF, 263 KB] Our marae is closed [PDF, 213 KB] Wharekai — Please don't share kai. This helps limit the spread of the virus [PDF, 270 KB] Kāuta / Kīhini — When handling kai or eating utensils, please wash your hands often [PDF, 254 KB] KOWHEORI-19 Ārai te kino whānau | Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 [PDF, 366 KB] --- Section Separator --- E whakatenatenahia ana te mau uwhi mata (Pae Mataara 1) | Wearing a face covering is encouraged ( Alert Level 1 ) [PDF, 87 KB] E whakatenatenahia ana te mau uwhi mata (Pae Mataara 1) | Wearing a face covering is encouraged ( Alert Level 1 ) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 87 KB] Me mau rawa koe i tētahi uwhi matai mata (Pae Mataara 2) | You must wear a face covering ( Alert Level 2 ) [PDF, 97 KB] Me mau rawa koe i tētahi uwhi matai mata (Pae Mataara 2) | You must wear a face covering ( Alert Level 2 ) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 97 KB] --- Section Separator --- Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 in 6 steps — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 145 KB] Mā te horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringaringa ka mate te wheori | Washing and drying your hands kills the virus [PDF, 1.5 MB] Ki konei ō ringa horoia ai ki te patuero | Sanitise your hands here [PDF, 1.5 MB] Whakapaingia, horoia hoki ki te patu kitakita ngā mata me ngā taputapu katoa | Clean and disinfect all surfaces and objects [PDF, 1.5 MB] Kia haumaru tonu ō tātou whānau | Keep our whānau safe [PDF, 99 KB] Me mihi i tawhiti | Greet from a distance [PDF, 82 KB] --- Section Separator --- Whāia ōu tapuwae | Track your journey [PDF, 125 KB] --- Section Separator --- Kia haumaru te haere (Pae Mataara 1) | Travel safely (Alert Level 1) [PDF, 119 KB] Kia haumaru te haere (Pae Mataara 1) | Travel safely (Alert Level 1) — te reo Māori and English [PDF, 120 KB] --- Section Separator --- Te reo Māori Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā uwhi mata me ngā ārai | Face coverings and masks Te whakamātautau | Testing Ki te pāngia koe e te mate korona | If you test positive to COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing helps Te noho i te pae 1 | Living at Level 1 Te noho i te pae 2 | Living at Level 2 Te tautoko i te whai kai, i te whai moni, i te whai kāinga, i te haumaru me te ora o te noho | Support with food, money, living, and staying safe and well He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters Ngā pānui whakaahua me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources عربي | Arabic Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori Español | Spanish فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotųam | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan 简体中文 | Simplified Chinese Af-Soomaali | Somali Tagalog ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Updates and resources Unstoppable summer toolkit --- Section Separator --- Everyone wants an endless summer. Those long glorious days that roll into weeks. No one wants it cut short. And to make sure it isn’t, we all need to do our bit. We need to show New Zealand that washing their hands, scanning QR codes, turning on Bluetooth tracing and staying home if they’re sick is the best way to unite and make our summer unstoppable. If you are running an event this summer it is important that it is as safe as possible for you and your event attendees. To help you play your part, we’ve created an Event Activation Toolkit, as well as a  checklist to ensure your event is as safe as possible. Event Activation Toolkit [PDF, 21 MB] Business checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 6.2 MB] Events checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 7.1 MB] Order collateral to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable. Order collateral to help make summer unstoppable (external link) If you cannot use this form, email us to order. Email Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz You can add text or images relevant to events, people or places in your region. Make summer unstoppable A3 template — blue [PDF, 1.7 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 template — red [PDF, 1.4 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 839 KB] Make festivals unstoppable A3 template [PDF, 2.3 MB] [Business or event] for an unstoppable summer A3 template — yellow [PDF, 26 MB] Make business unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 37 MB] Make events unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 59 MB] Make festivals unstoppable A3 poster [PDF, 1.9 MB] Make BBQs unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 8.6 MB] Make beaches unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 3.6 MB] Make family time unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 9.9 MB] Make music unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 20 MB] Make pool days unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 8.5 MB] Make waves unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 6 MB] Make events unstoppable A3 poster [PDF, 117 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 poster — beach [PDF, 6.1 MB] Scan QR codes A3 poster — icon [PDF, 2.9 MB] Scan QR codes A3 poster — photo [PDF, 2.7 MB] Scan QR codes A1 poster — icon [PDF, 2.9 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A3 poster — icon [PDF, 3.3 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A3 poster — photo [PDF, 3.1 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A1 poster — icon [PDF, 3.3 MB] Stay home if you’re sick A3 poster — icon [PDF, 3.5 MB] Stay home if you're sick A3 poster — photo [PDF, 8.1 MB] Stay home if you’re sick A1 poster — icon [PDF, 3.5 MB] Wash your hands A3 poster — icon [PDF, 2.8 MB] Wash your hands A3 poster — photo [PDF, 7.2 MB] Wash your hands A1 poster — icon [PDF, 2.8 MB] This poster has space in the centre to add your event’s QR code, name and address details. Put your QR code here A3 poster [PDF, 880 KB] Put your QR code here A1 poster [PDF, 2.7 MB] These digital banners are 1600x500 pixels. Make summer unstoppable — blue [JPG, 346 KB] Make summer unstoppable — red [JPG, 349 KB] Make business unstoppable — blue [PNG, 181 KB] Make events unstoppable — blue [PNG, 175 KB] Make festivals unstoppable — blue [PNG, 194 KB] Scan QR codes [JPG, 301 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [JPG, 319 KB] Stay home if you’re sick [JPG, 271 KB] Wash your hands [JPG, 286 KB] These social media tiles are 1080x1080 pixels. Make summer unstoppable — blue [JPG, 449 KB] Make summer unstoppable — red [JPG, 453 KB] Make business unstoppable — blue [PNG, 223 KB] Make events unstoppable — blue [PNG, 216 KB] Make festivals unstoppable — blue [PNG, 244 KB] Scan QR codes [JPG, 426 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [JPG, 448 KB] Stay home if you’re sick [JPG, 349 KB] Wash your hands [JPG, 397 KB] Table talker with QR code [PDF, 32 MB] Table talker with no QR code [PDF, 32 MB] You can download our posters and add in your own text or images so they work for you. If you need something else to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable, contact us with your design request. Please include a high resolution image and the relevant specs. We cannot cater to every request but we’ll do our best to provide you with design files. Email your request to Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Everyone wants an endless summer. Those long glorious days that roll into weeks. No one wants it cut short. And to make sure it isn’t, we all need to do our bit. We need to show New Zealand that washing their hands, scanning QR codes, turning on Bluetooth tracing and staying home if they’re sick is the best way to unite and make our summer unstoppable. --- Section Separator --- If you are running an event this summer it is important that it is as safe as possible for you and your event attendees. To help you play your part, we’ve created an Event Activation Toolkit, as well as a  checklist to ensure your event is as safe as possible. Event Activation Toolkit [PDF, 21 MB] --- Section Separator --- Business checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 6.2 MB] Events checklist to make summer unstoppable [PDF, 7.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Order collateral to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable. Order collateral to help make summer unstoppable (external link) If you cannot use this form, email us to order. Email Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- You can add text or images relevant to events, people or places in your region. Make summer unstoppable A3 template — blue [PDF, 1.7 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 template — red [PDF, 1.4 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 839 KB] Make festivals unstoppable A3 template [PDF, 2.3 MB] [Business or event] for an unstoppable summer A3 template — yellow [PDF, 26 MB] Make business unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 37 MB] Make events unstoppable A3 template — yellow [PDF, 59 MB] Make festivals unstoppable A3 poster [PDF, 1.9 MB] Make BBQs unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 8.6 MB] Make beaches unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 3.6 MB] Make family time unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 9.9 MB] Make music unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 20 MB] Make pool days unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 8.5 MB] Make waves unstoppable A2 poster [PDF, 6 MB] Make events unstoppable A3 poster [PDF, 117 MB] Make summer unstoppable A3 poster — beach [PDF, 6.1 MB] Scan QR codes A3 poster — icon [PDF, 2.9 MB] Scan QR codes A3 poster — photo [PDF, 2.7 MB] Scan QR codes A1 poster — icon [PDF, 2.9 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A3 poster — icon [PDF, 3.3 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A3 poster — photo [PDF, 3.1 MB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing A1 poster — icon [PDF, 3.3 MB] Stay home if you’re sick A3 poster — icon [PDF, 3.5 MB] Stay home if you're sick A3 poster — photo [PDF, 8.1 MB] Stay home if you’re sick A1 poster — icon [PDF, 3.5 MB] Wash your hands A3 poster — icon [PDF, 2.8 MB] Wash your hands A3 poster — photo [PDF, 7.2 MB] Wash your hands A1 poster — icon [PDF, 2.8 MB] This poster has space in the centre to add your event’s QR code, name and address details. Put your QR code here A3 poster [PDF, 880 KB] Put your QR code here A1 poster [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- These digital banners are 1600x500 pixels. Make summer unstoppable — blue [JPG, 346 KB] Make summer unstoppable — red [JPG, 349 KB] Make business unstoppable — blue [PNG, 181 KB] Make events unstoppable — blue [PNG, 175 KB] Make festivals unstoppable — blue [PNG, 194 KB] Scan QR codes [JPG, 301 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [JPG, 319 KB] Stay home if you’re sick [JPG, 271 KB] Wash your hands [JPG, 286 KB] --- Section Separator --- These social media tiles are 1080x1080 pixels. Make summer unstoppable — blue [JPG, 449 KB] Make summer unstoppable — red [JPG, 453 KB] Make business unstoppable — blue [PNG, 223 KB] Make events unstoppable — blue [PNG, 216 KB] Make festivals unstoppable — blue [PNG, 244 KB] Scan QR codes [JPG, 426 KB] Turn on Bluetooth tracing [JPG, 448 KB] Stay home if you’re sick [JPG, 349 KB] Wash your hands [JPG, 397 KB] --- Section Separator --- Table talker with QR code [PDF, 32 MB] Table talker with no QR code [PDF, 32 MB] --- Section Separator --- You can download our posters and add in your own text or images so they work for you. If you need something else to help your business, organisation or event make summer unstoppable, contact us with your design request. Please include a high resolution image and the relevant specs. We cannot cater to every request but we’ll do our best to provide you with design files. Email your request to Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Latest updates Social media and newsletters Misinformation and scams Data and statistics Contact a helpline Posters Business Toolkit Unstoppable summer toolkit Legislation and key documents Translations Accessible information
