If you test positive or negative, you should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT). What you need to know If you have COVID-19 Have a safe-as summer Get a booster Antiviral medicines COVID-19 symptoms Self-isolation rules Household Contacts International travel Weekly case numbers Alternate formats --- Section Separator --- A Royal Commission will prepare New Zealand for future pandemics through lessons learned from COVID-19. Broader second booster access will support higher vaccination rates among Māori and Pacific peoples and provide them with additional protection. Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You must wear one when visiting healthcare services. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The pandemic has taken a toll on everyone’s mental health. Tools are available to help you recover. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You must wear one when visiting healthcare services. Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. The pandemic has taken a toll on everyone’s mental health. Tools are available to help you recover.
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. Make a direct request for official information Customs New Zealand Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Ministry of Health Border Executive Board --- Section Separator --- Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (DPMC) COVID-19 proactive releases will no longer be published on the Unite against COVID-19 website. You can find these proactive releases on the DPMC website. Publications | DPMC (external link) Proactive releases currently on this website will remain. --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. This includes papers, minutes, Official Information Act requests (OIAs) and key advice. These documents are proactively released in keeping with the Official Information Act 1982. --- Section Separator --- A small number of documents and some parts of the released documents would not be appropriate to release and, if requested, would be withheld under the Official Information Act 1982 (the Act). Where this is the case, the relevant sections of the Act that would apply have been identified. Where information has been withheld, no public interest has been identified that would outweigh the reasons for withholding it. Some information has been withheld in full, from this release in relation to the relevant section(s) of the Act: Section 9(2)(f)(iv) — confidential advice Section 9(2)(ba)(ii) — information provided to the Government under an obligation of confidence Section 6(a) — international relations Section 9(2)(j) — commercial negotiations.
Home About this site Contact us Find contact information for Unite against COVID-19 Communications, Te Whatu Ora Health New Zealand. I am looking for... Communication and language support COVID-19 support Financial support Report a breach Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- You can find guidance and submit an Official Information Request to the COVID-19 Group on the DPMC website: How to make an Official Information Act request (external link) You can find guidance on how to submit an Official Information Act request to Te Whatu Ora on its website: Official Information Act requests | Te Whatu Ora (external link) Find information and advice translated into different languages: Translations Find information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs: Alternate formats Immigration New Zealand can answer questions about travel eligibility and visa categories. Contact Immigration NZ | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you run or own a business, you can find information on the business.govt website: COVID-19: Information for businesses (external link) Contact us | business.govt.nz (external link) We have a selection of posters available on this website. Download posters All our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, can be viewed and downloaded through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered directly to you, your business or your community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) You will need to contact the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. You can send a query through an online form on the Employment website or call them. Online form | employment.govt.nz (external link) Call: 0800 20 90 20 Call 111 immediately. If you have COVID-19, tell them when you ring. You need to contact your care co-ordinator or call Healthline. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19response@health.govt.nz There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 All MIQ facilities are now closed. Isolation and quarantine | Ministry of Business, Innovation & Employment (external link) If you have a health concern after your vaccination, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor. You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19vaccine@health.govt.nz Visit the Work and Income website for urgent financial support and ongoing needs. You can apply for a main benefit online and check your eligibility for food assistance. Work and Income website (external link) (external link) 0800 559 009 (MSD General Line) 0800 552 002 (Seniors 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Students) In MyMSD you can check your payments, tell MSD about changes and apply for a benefit or NZ Super: Use MyMSD (external link) You can also use the COVID-19 financial support tool on this website to see what support is available to you. Use the financial support tool If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with isolation rules. Report a breach online (external link) Face masks If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements How to report false or misleading information that you see can be found on this website. Report false or misleading information Contact the COVID-19 media team: Email: covid19media@dpmc.govt.nz If you have questions or feedback about the app, QR code posters or any problems using them, you will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Call 0800 800 606 You must enable JavaScript to submit this form --- Section Separator --- Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. If you are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to make a call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in alternate formats, including: New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print Audio Braille Audio description. Alternate formats Many government agencies have language support available if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages. Translations --- Section Separator --- If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach --- Section Separator --- You can contact Unite against COVID-19 Communications by using our online form above or by sending us a letter. If you are sending us feedback about our website, Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage you have feedback about. Postal address: Unite against COVID-19 Communications Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand PO Box 793 Wellington New Zealand 6140 Follow Unite against COVID-19 and Te Whatu Ora Health — New Zealand on social media. Social media
Home About this site Privacy --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. This website is operated by COVID-19 Communications, a business unit of Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. You may browse and access information contained within this website — including completing user research tasks, like filling in a survey — without providing any personal information. If you provide information (including personal information) to us — for example, through the general enquiry form — we will only use that information to: administer, evaluate, improve, and secure our ICT systems, our website, and the information our website contains (ICT and website purposes) improve our services action or respond to the information provided and communicate with you (this may include sharing the information with other government organisations to enable a response or action), and where such disclosure is required or permitted by law. We will keep any such information secure. We may share it with third parties to the extent necessary for the services they provide to us related to the purposes of our ICT systems and website. We have software to track which pages are visited. This helps us identify the most popular areas of our website. The information is aggregated, and we cannot identify individual visitors. Learn more about how we use statistical information You have the right to ask for a copy of any personal information we hold about you, and to ask for it to be corrected if you think it is wrong. If you would like to ask for a copy of your information or to have it corrected, or you have any concerns about the personal information that we hold, please write to: Te Whatu Ora PO Box 793 Wellington 6140 or send an email to info@health.govt.nz We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. This website is operated by COVID-19 Communications, a business unit of Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. --- Section Separator --- You may browse and access information contained within this website — including completing user research tasks, like filling in a survey — without providing any personal information. If you provide information (including personal information) to us — for example, through the general enquiry form — we will only use that information to: administer, evaluate, improve, and secure our ICT systems, our website, and the information our website contains (ICT and website purposes) improve our services action or respond to the information provided and communicate with you (this may include sharing the information with other government organisations to enable a response or action), and where such disclosure is required or permitted by law. We will keep any such information secure. We may share it with third parties to the extent necessary for the services they provide to us related to the purposes of our ICT systems and website. We have software to track which pages are visited. This helps us identify the most popular areas of our website. The information is aggregated, and we cannot identify individual visitors. Learn more about how we use statistical information You have the right to ask for a copy of any personal information we hold about you, and to ask for it to be corrected if you think it is wrong. If you would like to ask for a copy of your information or to have it corrected, or you have any concerns about the personal information that we hold, please write to: Te Whatu Ora PO Box 793 Wellington 6140 or send an email to info@health.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. --- Section Separator --- We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact us Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home About this site Terms of use --- Section Separator --- Welcome to Covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by COVID-19 Communications, a business unit of Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC-BY-NC Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/ (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government Logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photograph, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand may remove access to the content at any time. We updated this 'Copyright and attribution' section on 20 January 2022. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Welcome to Covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by COVID-19 Communications, a business unit of Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. --- Section Separator --- Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC-BY-NC Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/ (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government Logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photograph, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand may remove access to the content at any time. We updated this 'Copyright and attribution' section on 20 January 2022. --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact us Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. You might be interested in Child vaccinations Check your eligibility International travel vaccination certificates How to use My Covid Record About Novavax Vaccine advice for disabled people COVID-19 vaccine data --- Section Separator --- Talk to the COVID Vaccination Healthline 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. Call 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity stronger for longer. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. All vaccination mandates have ended. For health and safety, some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated against COVID-19. Find, download and share posters and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity stronger for longer. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. All vaccination mandates have ended. For health and safety, some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated against COVID-19. Find, download and share posters and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Find and download flyers and posters about COVID-19 booster vaccinations.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine boosters Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity stronger for longer. --- Section Separator --- Protection for the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. Staying up to date with your vaccinations keeps your immunity levels high. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. --- Section Separator --- You can get a first booster if you: are aged 16 or over have completed your primary course of the vaccine (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are aged 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster 6 months after your last dose. If you are 18 or over, you can get a Pfizer booster 3 months after your last dose, or a Novavax booster 6 months after your last dose. You can get a second booster if you are at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19. This includes: everyone aged 50 and over Māori and Pacific peoples aged 40 and over healthcare, aged care and disability workers aged 30 and over residents of aged care and disability care facilities severely immunocompromised people who received a 3-dose primary course and a fourth dose as a first booster (this would be a fifth dose for these people) people aged 16 and over who live with disability with significant or complex health needs or multiple comorbidities people aged 16 and over with a medical condition that increases the risk of severe COVID-19 illness. If you are eligible, you can get your second booster 6 months after your first booster. Clinical criteria in support of second booster eligibility | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It can show you where vaccination sites are, how soon you can get an appointment, and which vaccine types are available. Appointment availability map | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz The COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Call: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. COVID-19 vaccinations, no appointment required | Healthpoint (external link) --- Section Separator --- Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. If you have had COVID-19 and are eligible for a booster, you can get it 3 months after you tested positive. --- Section Separator --- You can check the date of your last vaccination in My Covid Record. Visit My Covid Record (external link) To find out over the phone, call the COVID Vaccination Healthline. You can call between 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Call: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- When you get a booster it is added to My Covid Record. You can then download another International Travel Vaccination Certificate or vaccination record. Visit My Covid Record (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine resources Find, download and share posters and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- 5 Reasons to Get Your Booster – A5 flyer (print) [PDF, 659 KB] 5 Reasons to Get Your Booster – A5 (web) [PDF, 639 KB]
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- Some health and disability sector employers may require workers to be vaccinated. This is because workers come into close contact with people likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. Employers can choose to require workers to be vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccination requirements may only be appropriate if the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19 at work is higher than in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read guidance on the Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand websites: COVID-19 controls at work | WorkSafe (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | Employment New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some health and disability sector employers may require workers to be vaccinated. This is because workers come into close contact with people likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Employers can choose to require workers to be vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccination requirements may only be appropriate if the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19 at work is higher than in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read guidance on the Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand websites: COVID-19 controls at work | WorkSafe (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | Employment New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine boosters What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine passes and certificates Vaccinations and work COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine passes and certificates Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. --- Section Separator --- Find out when to use an International Travel Vaccination Pass or COVID-19 Vaccination Record as proof of your vaccination status. Find out how to use My Covid Record to get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate and COVID-19 Vaccination Record. --- Section Separator --- Find out when to use an International Travel Vaccination Pass or COVID-19 Vaccination Record as proof of your vaccination status. Find out how to use My Covid Record to get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate and COVID-19 Vaccination Record.
Find out when to use an International Travel Vaccination Pass or COVID-19 vaccination record as proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling overseas and must show proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status, you need an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. This certificate is available to anyone aged 5 or over who has had any dose of a COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand. We also recommend downloading a copy of your COVID-19 vaccination records from My Covid Record to use alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your International Travel Vaccination Certificate has a QR code with information about the COVID-19 vaccine doses you have had in New Zealand. The details on it must match your passport — you can review these when you request the certificate. The International Travel Vaccination Certificate complies with EU Digital COVID Certificate standards. It is valid for 12 months. Get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- You can no longer request a new My Vaccine Pass. If you require proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status, you can still get a copy of your vaccination record or an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. --- Section Separator --- It can be used: as evidence of your vaccinations if required by an employer — including under the New Zealand vaccine mandate alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your vaccination record cannot be used instead of a My Vaccine Pass or an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your COVID-19 vaccination record includes: batch numbers dose number vaccine type any overseas vaccinations you have requested be added to your health record. Get a COVID-19 vaccination record --- Section Separator --- You can download your International Travel Vaccination Certificate or COVID-19 vaccination record from My Covid Record. How to use My Covid Record You can get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline. They are available between 8am and 8pm, 7 days a week. Call: 0800 28 29 26 , choose option 4 You can get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate at some participating vaccination sites. Contact them first to confirm if they offer this service. COVID-19 vaccination sites | Healthpoint (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine passes and certificates Proof of COVID-19 vaccination status How to use My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- Anyone aged 12 or over who has accessed health or disability services in New Zealand can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: driver licence passport birth certificate citizenship certificate. An Australian: passport birth certificate. Sign up for My Covid Record (external link) 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the 'Passes and certificates' section, select 'Request pass or certificate'. 3. The 'Select who this pass or certificate is for' will open. Select either 'Myself' or 'Someone else'. 4. The 'Select a pass or certificate' option will appear. Select 'International Travel Vaccination Certificate'. 5. You will then be prompted to enter details, including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your International Travel Vaccination Certificate by email within 24 hours. You can print a physical copy or save it to a digital device, like your phone. To save it to your phone, click "Add to Apple Wallet" or "GPay — Save to phone" in the email you receive. If the pass does not immediately add, check you are using the Safari browser (iOS) or the Chrome browser (Android). 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. Select 'Get a copy of your vaccinations'. 3. You will be prompted to enter your email address. 4. Your COVID-19 vaccination record will be emailed to you within 24 hours. --- Section Separator --- Anyone aged 12 or over who has accessed health or disability services in New Zealand can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: driver licence passport birth certificate citizenship certificate. An Australian: passport birth certificate. Sign up for My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the 'Passes and certificates' section, select 'Request pass or certificate'. 3. The 'Select who this pass or certificate is for' will open. Select either 'Myself' or 'Someone else'. 4. The 'Select a pass or certificate' option will appear. Select 'International Travel Vaccination Certificate'. 5. You will then be prompted to enter details, including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your International Travel Vaccination Certificate by email within 24 hours. You can print a physical copy or save it to a digital device, like your phone. To save it to your phone, click "Add to Apple Wallet" or "GPay — Save to phone" in the email you receive. If the pass does not immediately add, check you are using the Safari browser (iOS) or the Chrome browser (Android). --- Section Separator --- 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. Select 'Get a copy of your vaccinations'. 3. You will be prompted to enter your email address. 4. Your COVID-19 vaccination record will be emailed to you within 24 hours. --- Section Separator --- Proof of COVID-19 vaccination status How to use My Covid Record How to use My Covid Record
Home Current phase of our COVID-19 response New Zealand’s COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) has ended. With case numbers low, most COVID-19 rules were removed on 13 September 2022. What you need to know If you have COVID-19 How to self-isolate Household Contacts Get free RATs Face masks International travel Close Contacts Antivirals --- Section Separator --- Protecting lives and livelihoods remains the goal of the Government’s COVID-19 response. It is now possible to do this with fewer requirements, giving greater certainty to people, businesses and communities. With case numbers falling, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines to treat COVID-19, public health experts say it is safe to remove most COVID-19 rules and end border restrictions. Thanks to the efforts of New Zealanders throughout the pandemic, we have saved thousands of lives. As well as each person and family who has followed the rules, we thank iwi and Māori health providers, Pacific organisations, aged care providers, businesses, schools and other education providers who have made extraordinary efforts to protect people and communities. Isolation is our main tool to manage the spread of the virus. It is the most effective way to keep case numbers low. Isolating for 7 days remains a requirement for everyone who tests positive. To monitor for new variants arriving from overseas, the Government will continue to use: follow-up PCR (polymerase chain reaction) tests and genome sequencing of positive cases in travellers targeted surveillance at the border. COVID-19 has taken a toll on everyone’s mental health. Effective mental health tools are available to help people recover from the impact of the pandemic. Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- From 13 September 2022 you must still: isolate for 7 days if you have COVID-19 wear a face mask in certain healthcare facilities, such as hospitals. Some places may continue to ask people to wear a face mask. How to self-isolate Wearing a face mask Household Contacts no longer need to isolate for 7 days. If you live with someone who tests positive for COVID-19, we recommend you: take a rapid antigen test (RAT) each day for 5 days avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. Household Contacts Antiviral medicines are available for people at risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19, including: any New Zealander aged 65 or older Māori and Pacific peoples aged 50 or older anyone with 3 high-risk conditions. This will help protect our vulnerable communities. Medicines to treat COVID-19 All government vaccine mandates have ended. Some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated due to health and safety. Travellers and crew do not need proof of COVID-19 vaccination to enter New Zealand. Please check with your travel provider, for example, your airline, as they may still require proof of vaccination. If you have COVID-19 symptoms when you arrive in New Zealand by air, we encourage you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT). You can get free RATs at the airport. Information for international travellers --- Section Separator --- If you live with someone who has COVID-19, we recommend you do a rapid antigen test (RAT) each day for 5 days. Where to find help, plus mental wellbeing tools to help people recover from the impact of the pandemic. The COVID-19 Protection Framework set out rules for Red, Orange and Green traffic light settings. --- Section Separator --- If you live with someone who has COVID-19, we recommend you do a rapid antigen test (RAT) each day for 5 days. Where to find help, plus mental wellbeing tools to help people recover from the impact of the pandemic. The COVID-19 Protection Framework set out rules for Red, Orange and Green traffic light settings. --- Section Separator --- Information for places of worship on how to operate safely: COVID-19 guidance for places of worship [PDF, 60 KB] For information and advice for whānau and marae, see this Karawhiua factsheet: Staying safe with COVID-19 changes [PDF, 776 KB] --- Section Separator --- Staff, students and whānau can find information on Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Clubs, event organisers and others can find information on the Sport NZ website. Owners, employers and staff can find information on business.govt.nz. Employers and workers can find advice on the Ministry of Primary Industries website. Information for court participants and staff from the Ministry of Justice. --- Section Separator --- Staff, students and whānau can find information on Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Clubs, event organisers and others can find information on the Sport NZ website. Owners, employers and staff can find information on business.govt.nz. Employers and workers can find advice on the Ministry of Primary Industries website. Information for court participants and staff from the Ministry of Justice.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. --- Section Separator --- Updates to the COVID-19 response [BRF, 3 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] Changes to the COVID-19 rules [DOCX, 9.1 MB] Changes to the COVID-19 rules [PDF, 2.1 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] Updates to the COVID-19 response [DOCX, 349 KB] Updates to the COVID-19 response [MP3, 1 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 60 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [MP3, 1.2 MB] Updates to the COVID-19 response (external link) Medicines for treating COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Braille --- Section Separator --- Updates to the COVID-19 response [BRF, 3 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [BRF, 6 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 1 KB] Getting free face masks [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [BRF, 3 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Getting your booster dose [BRF, 4 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] My Covid Record [BRF, 3 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 4 KB] Isolating at home [BRF, 4 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [BRF, 2 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [BRF, 4 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- Updates to the COVID-19 response [BRF, 3 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [BRF, 6 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 1 KB] Getting free face masks [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [BRF, 3 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Getting your booster dose [BRF, 4 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] My Covid Record [BRF, 3 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 4 KB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [BRF, 4 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [BRF, 2 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand [BRF, 4 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read --- Section Separator --- Changes to the COVID-19 rules [DOCX, 9.1 MB] Changes to the COVID-19 rules [PDF, 2.1 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 13 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [PDF, 3.2 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Getting free face masks [PDF, 1.4 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 3.9 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] (external link) What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [PDF, 1.2 MB] (external link) Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [PDF, 2.8 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [DOCX, 17 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [PDF, 2.6 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [DOCX, 14 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [PDF, 2.3 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [DOCX, 5.4 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [PDF, 1.5 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 5.2 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [PDF, 1.3 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 12 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 3 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [PDF, 2.4 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Changes to the COVID-19 rules [DOCX, 9.1 MB] Changes to the COVID-19 rules [PDF, 2.1 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 13 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [PDF, 3.2 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Getting free face masks [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 3.9 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 4.4 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] (external link) What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [PDF, 1.2 MB] (external link) Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [PDF, 2.8 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [DOCX, 17 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [PDF, 2.6 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [DOCX, 14 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [PDF, 2.3 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [DOCX, 5.4 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 5.2 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [PDF, 1.3 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 12 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 3 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [PDF, 2.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio --- Section Separator --- Updates to the COVID-19 response [DOCX, 349 KB] Updates to the COVID-19 response [MP3, 1 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 60 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [MP3, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 544 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 537 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [MP3, 2.9 MB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 35 KB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Wearing a face mask [MP3, 470 KB] Getting free face masks [MP3, 987 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] The Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 544 KB] Getting your booster dose [DOCX, 539 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.7 MB] Getting your booster dose [MP3, 10 MB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [MP3, 1.1 MB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] My Covid Record [DOCX, 539 KB] My Covid Record [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 541 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [DOCX, 539 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 542 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.6 MB] Isolating at home [DOCX, 40 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 540 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 1.7 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [MP3, 894 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 60 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [MP3, 1.2 MB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 38 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [MP3, 1.9 MB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 386 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- Updates to the COVID-19 response [DOCX, 349 KB] Updates to the COVID-19 response [MP3, 1 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 60 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [MP3, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 544 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 537 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [MP3, 2.9 MB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 35 KB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Wearing a face mask [MP3, 470 KB] Getting free face masks [MP3, 987 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 544 KB] Getting your booster dose [DOCX, 539 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.7 MB] Getting your booster dose [MP3, 10 MB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [MP3, 1.1 MB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] My Covid Record [DOCX, 539 KB] My Covid Record [MP3, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 541 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [DOCX, 539 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 542 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 40 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 540 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 1.7 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [MP3, 894 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 60 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [MP3, 1.2 MB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 38 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [MP3, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 386 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language --- Section Separator --- Changes to the COVID-19 rules (external link) Medicines to treat COVID-19 (external link) The COVID-19 virus and symptoms (external link) COVID-19 Information for parents (external link) COVID-19 variants (external link) Long COVID (external link) Getting the right information (external link) Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? (external link) COVID-19 readiness walkthrough (external link) Wearing a face mask (external link) Getting free face masks (external link) Getting your face mask exemption pass (external link) Be mindful of masks (external link) The Pfizer vaccine (external link) Getting your booster dose (external link) Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose (external link) 3rd Primary Dose for Immunocompromised People (external link) Vaccination medical exemptions (external link) How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) Keep up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations (external link) My Covid Record (external link) International Travel Vaccination Certificate (external link) COVID-19 Vaccine for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years (external link) After your child's Pfizer vaccination (external link) How to get a Rapid Antigen Test (external link) How to use a Rapid Antigen Test (external link) How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results (external link) What to expect from a PCR test (external link) If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 (external link) What happens if you test positive for COVID-19 (external link) How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form (external link) Isolating at home (external link) Medicines for treating COVID-19 (external link) Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people (external link) Help while you are self-isolating (external link) Managing your COVID-19 symptoms (external link) After you have had COVID-19 (external link) Travelling to New Zealand (external link) Leaving New Zealand (external link) If you get COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand (external link) Services and support (external link) It's okay to ask for help (external link) It's ok to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in on others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) --- Section Separator --- Changes to the COVID-19 rules (external link) Medicines to treat COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 virus and symptoms (external link) COVID-19 Information for parents (external link) COVID-19 variants (external link) Long COVID (external link) Getting the right information (external link) Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? (external link) COVID-19 readiness walkthrough (external link) Wearing a face mask (external link) Getting free face masks (external link) Getting your face mask exemption pass (external link) Be mindful of masks (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine (external link) Getting your booster dose (external link) Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose (external link) 3rd Primary Dose for Immunocompromised People (external link) Vaccination medical exemptions (external link) How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) Keep up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations (external link) My Covid Record (external link) International Travel Vaccination Certificate (external link) COVID-19 Vaccine for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years (external link) After your child's Pfizer vaccination (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to get a Rapid Antigen Test (external link) How to use a Rapid Antigen Test (external link) How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results (external link) What to expect from a PCR test (external link) If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 (external link) What happens if you test positive for COVID-19 (external link) How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form (external link) --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home (external link) Medicines for treating COVID-19 (external link) Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people (external link) Help while you are self-isolating (external link) Managing your COVID-19 symptoms (external link) After you have had COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand (external link) Leaving New Zealand (external link) If you get COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Services and support (external link) It's okay to ask for help (external link) It's ok to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in on others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Posters Download posters and resources for your household and business to help everyone keep safe from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- You can view and download all our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use, posters and resources in other languages. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Please wear a face mask — A4 [PDF, 79 KB] Face mask are required here — A4 [PDF, 80 KB] --- Section Separator --- Make a plan if you get COVID-19 — isolation checklist [PDF, 86 KB] Kia ora, we're self-isolating. Please do not enter [PDF, 88 KB] --- Section Separator --- How to use a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) [PDF, 730 KB] --- Section Separator --- Businesses and workplaces are no longer required to display a QR code poster but can choose to do so. Note: You can no longer create new QR code posters. This service ended on 29 September 2022. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] A simplified version is available for disabled communities: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, simplified [PDF, 2.6 MB]
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Ko tā te kano ārai mate he tiaki i ō tamariki, tō whānau me tō hapori. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. --- Section Separator --- Māori and Pacific peoples aged 40 and over can now get a second booster. COVID-19 vaccine boosters --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate Rapu me pēhea te whiwhi taunakitanga o ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa i te wā e whakawhiti ana ki tāwāhi Rapua he kōrero mō te tuku kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti hei ārai atu i te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate Rapu me pēhea te whiwhi taunakitanga o ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa i te wā e whakawhiti ana ki tāwāhi Rapua he kōrero mō te tuku kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti hei ārai atu i te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi.
Home News and data Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. What you need to know Vaccination rates around NZ Media conferences Latest case numbers --- Section Separator --- A Royal Commission will prepare New Zealand for future pandemics through lessons learned from COVID-19. Broader second booster access will support higher vaccination rates among Māori and Pacific peoples and provide them with additional protection. Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow Unite against COVID-19 and Te Whatu Ora – Health New Zealand on social media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow Unite against COVID-19 and Te Whatu Ora – Health New Zealand on social media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Report a breach online
Home News and data Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Data and statistics available: COVID-19 cases Vaccine data COVID-19 data portal Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 12 December 2022 The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. This includes: current COVID-19 cases case demographics source of COVID-19 cases. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more case data. COVID-19 current cases | Ministry of Health (external link) 514 Cases in hospital as at midnight Sunday 514 Cases in hospital as at midnight Sunday 5,721 New case 7-day rolling average 5,721 New case 7-day rolling average 40,098 New cases reported in the last week 40,098 New cases reported in the last week 330 People reinfected within 90 days (in the last week) 330 People reinfected within 90 days (in the last week) --- Section Separator --- You can filter case numbers by health districts, age groups, and first infections and reinfections. COVID-19 data charts | Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 12 December 2022 The Ministry of Health reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and deaths related to COVID-19. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more data. COVID-19 current cases data | Ministry of Health (external link) 3 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 3 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 2,257 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) 2,257 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 12 December 2022 The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more testing data. Testing for COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) 8,530 7-day rolling average of RATs each day 8,530 7-day rolling average of RATs each day 12,705 PCR tests in the past week 12,705 PCR tests in the past week --- Section Separator --- Last updated 7 December 2022 The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Data is updated weekly on a Wednesday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more vaccine data. COVID-19 vaccine data | Ministry of Health (external link) The dataset used to calculate the percentage of people vaccinated changed in August 2022. Find out more on the Te Whatu Ora website: Updated health user information informs COVID-19 vaccination programme | Te Whatu Ora (external link) 73% Percentage of eligible 18+ who have received first booster 73% Percentage of eligible 18+ who have received first booster 90% Percentage of 12+ who have completed primary course 90% Percentage of 12+ who have completed primary course 268,878 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 268,878 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 153,728 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 153,728 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 2,743,217 Booster first doses 2,743,217 Booster first doses 702,013 Booster second doses 702,013 Booster second doses --- Section Separator --- Check our map to find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | Stats NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- If data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and, for researchers, the ability to request detailed COVID-19 data. COVID-19 data resources | Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 1-10 of 1075 updates 05 Dec 2022 A Royal Commission will prepare New Zealand for future pandemics through lessons learned from COVID-19. 16 Nov 2022 Broader second booster access will support higher vaccination rates among Māori and Pacific peoples and provide them with additional protection. 16 Nov 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 18 Oct 2022 The Government is narrowing the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act and removing the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. 13 Oct 2022 The Omicron subvariant BQ1.1 has been circulating in the Northern Hemisphere and has now been found in New Zealand. 30 Sep 2022 An analysis of deaths from COVID-19 in New Zealand shows being up to date with your vaccines is the single best way to reduce the risk of dying from COVID-19. 21 Sep 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 15 Sep 2022 The Ministry of Health has released long COVID guidelines for health professionals, individuals and those caring for people with long COVID. 13 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 Sep 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19.
The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 12:20pm. Speakers: Director-General and lead of the Public Health Agency Dr Andrew Old Ministry of Health Chief Science Advisor Dr Ian Town Te Whatu Ora Interim National Medical Director Dr Pete Watson.
Māori and Pacific peoples aged 40 to 49 will be eligible for a second COVID-19 booster from Friday 18 November to provide additional protection from the virus. The decision by the Director-General of Health to expand second booster eligibility follows a recommendation from the Ministry of Health’s COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group (CV-TAG). Lowering the eligible age to 40 years will help to address health inequity. Second COVID-19 booster will be available to Māori and Pacific peoples aged 40 to 49, 6 months after first booster. Over 63,000 Māori and Pacific peoples will become eligible. Second booster will be available for this group from Friday 18 November. Recent data reveals Māori and Pacific peoples remain at higher risk of severe outcomes from the virus. Over 63,000 people will immediately become eligible for the second COVID-19 booster. First and second boosters help to reduce the chance of more serious illness and hospitalisation, so we strongly recommend people book in for the vaccines they are eligible for. There is clear evidence that the burden from COVID-19 has fallen unevenly, and Māori and Pacific peoples are over-represented in COVID-19 hospitalisations with that risk increasing from the age of 40 years. The broader second booster access will help support higher vaccination rates among Māori and Pacific peoples and provide them with additional protection. Second boosters can be given at least 6 months after a first booster, and at least 3 months after a COVID-19 infection. Based on current advice, for those who are not at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a 2-dose primary course and a booster dose continue to provide very good and lasting protection from severe illness. By being more targeted in the rollout of the second booster, we can help reach the people that need it most. First and second booster vaccines are available through walk-in and booked appointments at Māori and Pacific providers, pharmacies, general practice and other locations across Aotearoa. Appointments can be booked at BookMyVaccine.nz (external link) or by calling the COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . We continue to review new information on COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccines as it becomes available, and will make further updated recommendations if necessary. COVID-19 vaccines
A Royal Commission to prepare New Zealand for future pandemics through lessons learned from COVID-19 has been announced. Every country in the world has grappled with COVID-19 and there was no playbook for managing it. It had been over 100 years since we experienced a pandemic of this scale, so it is critical we compile what worked and what we can learn from it should it ever happen again. New Zealand experienced fewer cases, hospitalisations and deaths than nearly any other country in the first 2 years of the pandemic but there has undoubtedly been a huge impact on New Zealanders both here and abroad. A Royal Commission of Inquiry is the highest form of public inquiry and is the right thing to do, given the COVID-19 emergency was the most significant threat to the health of New Zealanders and our economy since World War II. Today Cabinet approved the terms of reference. The Royal Commission has been asked to look at the overall response, including the economic response, identify what we can learn from it and how that can be applied to any future pandemic. It will be chaired by Australian-based epidemiologist Professor Tony Blakely, alongside 2 members, former Cabinet Minister Hon Hekia Parata and former Treasury Secretary John Whitehead, CNZM, KStJ. Each brings a unique set of skills, and importantly, are independent of the Government and its response. Professor Blakely’s understanding of public health is extensive. He has the knowledge and experience necessary to lead this work. Hekia Parata and John Whitehead will add expertise and bring useful perspectives on the economic response and the response for Māori. New Zealand’s COVID-19 response has been heavily examined, both internationally and nationally. So far 75 reviews have been carried out within New Zealand since 2020, generating a total of 1,639 recommendations. The Royal Commission will begin considering evidence from 1 February 2023 and conclude in mid-2024. A report will then be prepared which will help inform any future Government’s pandemic response. Find the Royal Commission terms of reference on the Beehive website: Royal Commission to draw lessons from pandemic response | Beehive (external link)
Displaying 11-20 of 1075 updates 12 Sep 2022 The most recent health advice now tells us that with the lowest cases and hospitalisations since February, we are in a good position to move forward. 09 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Sep 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 06 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 1031-1040 of 1075 updates 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 1041-1050 of 1075 updates 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020.
Displaying 1051-1060 of 1075 updates 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected.
Displaying 1061-1070 of 1075 updates 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm.
Displaying 1071-1075 of 1075 updates 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 21-30 of 1075 updates 30 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 29 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Aug 2022 New appointments have been made to the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group as well as extending the term of the group until December. 26 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 18 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 31-40 of 1075 updates 17 Aug 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 16 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2022 New Zealand will remain at the Orange traffic light setting, while hospitalisations remain elevated and pressure on the health system continues through winter. 08 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 41-50 of 1075 updates 04 Aug 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 03 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Jul 2022 New Zealand’s international border opens to all visitors, including from non-visa waiver countries, and international students from 11:59pm, 31 July 2022. 31 Jul 2022 The same vaccination rules for passengers arriving by air will apply to arrivals on cruise ships and recreational vessels such as ocean-going yachts. 29 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 51-60 of 1075 updates 25 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 21 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Jul 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 12pm. 18 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 14 Jul 2022 The Government is rolling out additional measures to help tackle the second Omicron wave and record levels of flu to ease pressure on the health system. 14 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Home News and data Media conferences Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. --- Section Separator --- There is no media conference this week. --- Section Separator --- A Royal Commission will prepare New Zealand for future pandemics through lessons learned from COVID-19. Broader second booster access will support higher vaccination rates among Māori and Pacific peoples and provide them with additional protection. Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19.
Home News and data Report a breach --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the current COVID-19 rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Summary of current rules Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the current COVID-19 rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Summary of current rules Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- Latest news Media conferences Data and statistics Map of COVID-19 vaccination rates in New Zealand Social media Report a breach
Home News and data Social media --- Section Separator --- Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) TikTok (external link) YouTube (external link) Facebook (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) We are here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have 2 simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. Comments and messages submitted to our social media pages may be used for reporting purposes. --- Section Separator --- Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) TikTok (external link) YouTube (external link) Facebook (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) We are here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have 2 simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. Comments and messages submitted to our social media pages may be used for reporting purposes. --- Section Separator --- Latest news Media conferences Data and statistics Map of COVID-19 vaccination rates in New Zealand Social media Report a breach
Home Prepare and stay safe Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. What you need to know When to wear a mask Check your symptoms Long COVID COVID-19 variants Mental health support Report false information Wastewater testing --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants, symptoms, and what we know about Long COVID. Advice for people who are at higher risk of more severe illness if they get COVID-19. We all need to be prepared to self-isolate if we get COVID-19, or are a Household Contact. This checklist can help you and your whānau make a plan. Learn how you can help slow the spread of COVID-19 by keeping up habits such as wearing a face mask and staying home when sick. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. Emergency services operate at all traffic light settings. If you need urgent help in an emergency, call 111 immediately even if you and your household are isolating. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants, symptoms, and what we know about Long COVID. Advice for people who are at higher risk of more severe illness if they get COVID-19. We all need to be prepared to self-isolate if we get COVID-19, or are a Household Contact. This checklist can help you and your whānau make a plan. Learn how you can help slow the spread of COVID-19 by keeping up habits such as wearing a face mask and staying home when sick. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. Emergency services operate at all traffic light settings. If you need urgent help in an emergency, call 111 immediately even if you and your household are isolating. --- Section Separator --- This section contains information for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. --- Section Separator --- This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for older people. --- Section Separator --- Find the latest information and advice for whānau, hapū, and iwi Māori. --- Section Separator --- Find the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities, including translations. --- Section Separator --- Misinformation about COVID-19 works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants and symptoms. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Information about how long people with COVID-19 are likely to be infectious, and what we know about immunity from COVID-19. Wastewater testing helps track COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is a surveillance tool used alongside testing community and border cases. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Information about how long people with COVID-19 are likely to be infectious, and what we know about immunity from COVID-19. Wastewater testing helps track COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is a surveillance tool used alongside testing community and border cases.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 Infection and immunity --- Section Separator --- How infectious someone is may depend on a range of factors, such as how sick they are and how their immune system responds to the virus. If you get COVID-19, you are likely to be infectious from 48 hours before the onset of symptoms until 24 hours after your symptoms have ended. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. These people may still be infectious. Some people may test positive for COVID-19 after they have recovered and no longer have symptoms. They are unlikely to be infectious beyond 24 hours after their symptoms have ended. When you get SARS-CoV2 — the virus that causes COVID-19 — your immune system kicks in and produces an immune response. Your immune system starts creating proteins called antibodies. These antibodies fight the virus. Antibodies can remember what a virus looks like, which means that your immune system can spot and target the virus if you get it again. The immune system then destroys the virus. This process is like what happens when your body encounters other common viruses, such as the flu. While our body can produce an immune response to SARS-CoV-2, we do not know how long this immunity lasts. Initial research shows that antibody responses can last for several months in some people. Getting a COVID-19 vaccine produces the same immune response without you getting the virus. Vaccines give your body a head start so when you are exposed to the virus, your body already knows how to fight it. COVID-19 vaccines It is possible to test for antibodies in the blood if a person has had COVID-19 before. This is an antibody or serology test. Antibody testing may be helpful for finding out whether someone has had COVID-19 in the past but it is not helpful for diagnosing new infections. This is because your body takes a few weeks to make antibodies after catching a virus. Antibody testing is not available publicly on request in New Zealand. It is only used in limited cases at the direction of a public health doctor. This is to support the investigation of possible new cases or to support patient management. Antibodies attack 2 different parts of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. They are: the spike protein on the surface of the virus the shell of the virus, also known as the nucleocapsid. Your body produces 3 different types of antibodies, also called immunoglobulins, to work against the 2 parts of the virus. They are: IgM IgG IgA. These 3 antibodies can be detected within 1 to 3 weeks after you have COVID-19. IgM and IgG antibodies can be made at the same time. IgM and IgA antibodies decay more rapidly than IgG. We know that: IgG antibodies made after having COVID-19 can be detected 2 or more weeks after symptoms began. Not everyone produces IgG antibodies when they get COVID-19. But they may still develop immunity. Studies show IgG antibodies can last for several months after you have COVID-19. But it is still unknown how long immunity may last. As with other viral tests, antibody testing can have false-positive and false-negative results. These tests should only be used in appropriate situations and the results need to be interpreted carefully. The latest evidence shows that getting reinfected with COVID-19 can happen within a short period of time. Reinfection will become more likely as new variants spread in the community. If you get new COVID-19 symptoms and it has been more than 29 days since your previous infection, it is possible you have a new infection and should get a test. It is unclear how common reinfection is with COVID-19. We are monitoring international and national data and will update guidance as new evidence is available. --- Section Separator --- How infectious someone is may depend on a range of factors, such as how sick they are and how their immune system responds to the virus. If you get COVID-19, you are likely to be infectious from 48 hours before the onset of symptoms until 24 hours after your symptoms have ended. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. These people may still be infectious. Some people may test positive for COVID-19 after they have recovered and no longer have symptoms. They are unlikely to be infectious beyond 24 hours after their symptoms have ended. --- Section Separator --- When you get SARS-CoV2 — the virus that causes COVID-19 — your immune system kicks in and produces an immune response. Your immune system starts creating proteins called antibodies. These antibodies fight the virus. Antibodies can remember what a virus looks like, which means that your immune system can spot and target the virus if you get it again. The immune system then destroys the virus. This process is like what happens when your body encounters other common viruses, such as the flu. While our body can produce an immune response to SARS-CoV-2, we do not know how long this immunity lasts. Initial research shows that antibody responses can last for several months in some people. Getting a COVID-19 vaccine produces the same immune response without you getting the virus. Vaccines give your body a head start so when you are exposed to the virus, your body already knows how to fight it. COVID-19 vaccines It is possible to test for antibodies in the blood if a person has had COVID-19 before. This is an antibody or serology test. Antibody testing may be helpful for finding out whether someone has had COVID-19 in the past but it is not helpful for diagnosing new infections. This is because your body takes a few weeks to make antibodies after catching a virus. Antibody testing is not available publicly on request in New Zealand. It is only used in limited cases at the direction of a public health doctor. This is to support the investigation of possible new cases or to support patient management. Antibodies attack 2 different parts of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. They are: the spike protein on the surface of the virus the shell of the virus, also known as the nucleocapsid. Your body produces 3 different types of antibodies, also called immunoglobulins, to work against the 2 parts of the virus. They are: IgM IgG IgA. These 3 antibodies can be detected within 1 to 3 weeks after you have COVID-19. IgM and IgG antibodies can be made at the same time. IgM and IgA antibodies decay more rapidly than IgG. We know that: IgG antibodies made after having COVID-19 can be detected 2 or more weeks after symptoms began. Not everyone produces IgG antibodies when they get COVID-19. But they may still develop immunity. Studies show IgG antibodies can last for several months after you have COVID-19. But it is still unknown how long immunity may last. As with other viral tests, antibody testing can have false-positive and false-negative results. These tests should only be used in appropriate situations and the results need to be interpreted carefully. --- Section Separator --- The latest evidence shows that getting reinfected with COVID-19 can happen within a short period of time. Reinfection will become more likely as new variants spread in the community. If you get new COVID-19 symptoms and it has been more than 29 days since your previous infection, it is possible you have a new infection and should get a test. It is unclear how common reinfection is with COVID-19. We are monitoring international and national data and will update guidance as new evidence is available. --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Infection and immunity Wastewater testing
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. If you get symptoms with Omicron, you are likely to get them within 3 days of infection. But it could take up to 8 days after infection. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. Some people with COVID-19 can pass it on to others 1 or 2 days before showing symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. If you have COVID-19 Some people who have tested positive for COVID-19 can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. This includes 1 follow-up check with your healthcare provider if required during those 6 weeks, once your acute episode of COVID-19 is over. After you have had the follow-up check, if you require one, and you no longer have acute COVID-19, you will then need to pay for your future visits to your doctor and prescription dispensing fees, just as you would for other medical conditions, even if it is within the 6-week period. For most people reinfection with COVID-19 is not likely to be more severe than previous infections. But you can experience different symptoms. Every time you get COVID-19, it increases your risk of getting long COVID and other medical issues. If you do get COVID-19 again you will have access to the same advice, help and support you would receive for a new COVID-19 infection. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection: there is no need to take a RAT you should stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you have an underlying health condition or your symptoms are getting worse, you should get advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. Get a COVID-19 test If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. If you have COVID-19 If your test is negative: your symptoms could be another illness, such as a cold or flu and your symptoms continue, you should repeat a RAT 48 hours later if your result is still negative, stay home until at least 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why air ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off a surface is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. Long COVID Healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Healthy habits include handwashing and wearing a face mask in crowded indoor places. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means if you have COVID-19, you are far less likely to: get very sick need to go to hospital infect other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, this protection can decrease over time. Booster doses reduce the chance of serious illness and lower the risk of spreading COVID-19 to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. If you get symptoms with Omicron, you are likely to get them within 3 days of infection. But it could take up to 8 days after infection. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. Some people with COVID-19 can pass it on to others 1 or 2 days before showing symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. If you have COVID-19 Some people who have tested positive for COVID-19 can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. --- Section Separator --- You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. This includes 1 follow-up check with your healthcare provider if required during those 6 weeks, once your acute episode of COVID-19 is over. After you have had the follow-up check, if you require one, and you no longer have acute COVID-19, you will then need to pay for your future visits to your doctor and prescription dispensing fees, just as you would for other medical conditions, even if it is within the 6-week period. --- Section Separator --- For most people reinfection with COVID-19 is not likely to be more severe than previous infections. But you can experience different symptoms. Every time you get COVID-19, it increases your risk of getting long COVID and other medical issues. If you do get COVID-19 again you will have access to the same advice, help and support you would receive for a new COVID-19 infection. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection: there is no need to take a RAT you should stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you have an underlying health condition or your symptoms are getting worse, you should get advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. Get a COVID-19 test If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. If you have COVID-19 If your test is negative: your symptoms could be another illness, such as a cold or flu and your symptoms continue, you should repeat a RAT 48 hours later if your result is still negative, stay home until at least 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why air ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off a surface is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. Long COVID --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Healthy habits include handwashing and wearing a face mask in crowded indoor places. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means if you have COVID-19, you are far less likely to: get very sick need to go to hospital infect other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, this protection can decrease over time. Booster doses reduce the chance of serious illness and lower the risk of spreading COVID-19 to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Infection and immunity Wastewater testing
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 Wastewater testing --- Section Separator --- Wastewater testing is a surveillance tool used to help track COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. We use it alongside community testing of people with COVID-19 symptoms. The Institute of Environmental Research and Science (ESR) collects wastewater samples for testing. Wastewater testing sites have a mixture of wastewater from toilets, sinks and drains of hundreds of thousands of people. They test these samples to see if it contains fragments of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. This allows for widescale testing for COVID-19 in the community at one time. If there are increasing levels of the virus in the wastewater, it suggests cases are growing in the community. Wastewater testing gives us an idea of transmission in the community that is not dependent on peoples' testing behaviour. Wastewater testing provides: an early warning of COVID-19 cases in the community, to guide our behaviours and help inform the public health response a sign of how much virus is circulating in the community and shows increasing and decreasing trends in the transmission rate detection of which SARS-CoV-2 variants are circulating in the community. Wastewater is currently sampled from many sites around the country. ESR tests these samples for SARS-CoV-2, to estimate the amount of virus circulating in that area. ESR takes samples from fewer sites to check for variants of SARS-CoV-2. The frequency of sampling depends on: the local population access to wastewater collection points risk factors. ESR provides a weekly wastewater surveillance report and dashboard to help you track potential COVID-19 risk in your area. COVID-19 wastewater surveillance | ESR (external link) Detecting SARS-CoV-2 in wastewater depends on: how many people are shedding the virus in the area how many people’s wastewater goes into the sampling site how diluted the wastewater is. The more people in the area that are shedding the virus, the better the chance is of detecting it. Even if ESR find no virus in the wastewater, this does not mean there is no COVID-19 in the community. People may shed fragments of the virus into wastewater when they have an active COVID-19 infection. The amount of virus shed varies between people and over the course of a person’s infection and recovery. People tend to shed many times more virus while they are infectious, compared to later in their infection. Those who have recovered from COVID-19 and are no longer infectious may continue to shed small amounts for weeks after they recover. The levels of virus detected in wastewater tracked over time, tend to match with the number of active cases in the community. It is more accurate in larger populations than in smaller communities, which can have more variability. Wastewater testing can show increasing or decreasing trends in cases. Vaccines do not contain any of the live virus, so do not cause viral shedding and are not found as viral fragments in wastewater. The levels of virus in the wastewater give us information on whether cases are increasing or decreasing. If the levels of virus in the wastewater increase, then likely cases in the community are growing. As cases grow, we encourage you to stay home if you are sick, get a test, and wear a mask in public indoor spaces. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 There is no risk of infection from the viral fragments in wastewater. --- Section Separator --- Wastewater testing is a surveillance tool used to help track COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. We use it alongside community testing of people with COVID-19 symptoms. The Institute of Environmental Research and Science (ESR) collects wastewater samples for testing. Wastewater testing sites have a mixture of wastewater from toilets, sinks and drains of hundreds of thousands of people. They test these samples to see if it contains fragments of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. This allows for widescale testing for COVID-19 in the community at one time. If there are increasing levels of the virus in the wastewater, it suggests cases are growing in the community. Wastewater testing gives us an idea of transmission in the community that is not dependent on peoples' testing behaviour. --- Section Separator --- Wastewater testing provides: an early warning of COVID-19 cases in the community, to guide our behaviours and help inform the public health response a sign of how much virus is circulating in the community and shows increasing and decreasing trends in the transmission rate detection of which SARS-CoV-2 variants are circulating in the community. --- Section Separator --- Wastewater is currently sampled from many sites around the country. ESR tests these samples for SARS-CoV-2, to estimate the amount of virus circulating in that area. ESR takes samples from fewer sites to check for variants of SARS-CoV-2. The frequency of sampling depends on: the local population access to wastewater collection points risk factors. ESR provides a weekly wastewater surveillance report and dashboard to help you track potential COVID-19 risk in your area. COVID-19 wastewater surveillance | ESR (external link) --- Section Separator --- Detecting SARS-CoV-2 in wastewater depends on: how many people are shedding the virus in the area how many people’s wastewater goes into the sampling site how diluted the wastewater is. The more people in the area that are shedding the virus, the better the chance is of detecting it. Even if ESR find no virus in the wastewater, this does not mean there is no COVID-19 in the community. People may shed fragments of the virus into wastewater when they have an active COVID-19 infection. The amount of virus shed varies between people and over the course of a person’s infection and recovery. People tend to shed many times more virus while they are infectious, compared to later in their infection. Those who have recovered from COVID-19 and are no longer infectious may continue to shed small amounts for weeks after they recover. The levels of virus detected in wastewater tracked over time, tend to match with the number of active cases in the community. It is more accurate in larger populations than in smaller communities, which can have more variability. Wastewater testing can show increasing or decreasing trends in cases. Vaccines do not contain any of the live virus, so do not cause viral shedding and are not found as viral fragments in wastewater. --- Section Separator --- The levels of virus in the wastewater give us information on whether cases are increasing or decreasing. If the levels of virus in the wastewater increase, then likely cases in the community are growing. As cases grow, we encourage you to stay home if you are sick, get a test, and wear a mask in public indoor spaces. Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- There is no risk of infection from the viral fragments in wastewater. --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Infection and immunity Wastewater testing
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 What is COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | World Health Organization (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The Ministry of Health provides updates on variants and has a framework to prepare and respond to any new variants of concern. COVID-19 variants | Ministry of Health (external link) Omicron was first classified as a variant of concern by WHO in November 2021. It has spread worldwide and is now the major variant in many countries. Compared to Delta, Omicron: is more infectious causes similar symptoms, but because we have a highly vaccinated population, many people have milder or no symptoms (though could still pass the virus on to others) puts many more people in hospital, because Omicron can cause many more infections over a short period of time can still cause severe illness and even death, especially in people at high risk of serious illness, such as older people and people with underlying health conditions. Omicron, like other variants, continues to change. Variants and sub-variants in New Zealand include: BA.2 — dominant in early 2022 BA.2.12.1, BA.4 and BA.5 — first detected in New Zealand in late April 2022 BA.2.75 — first detected in New Zealand in July 2022, may be slightly more infectious than BA.2. Although new variants of Omicron continue to emerge, there does not appear to have been a change in the severity of COVID-19. New Zealand's public health settings to manage current Omicron variants are appropriate for its subvariants. Omicron variants | Ministry of Health (external link) To identify which variant a person has, there needs to be whole-genome sequencing from a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. We encourage people arriving from overseas to do rapid antigen tests (RATs). Those who test positive should have a follow-up PCR test to identify the variant. Healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Healthy habits include handwashing and wearing a face mask in crowded indoor places. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means if you have COVID-19, you are far less likely to: get very sick need to go to hospital infect other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, this protection can decrease over time. Booster doses reduce the chance of serious illness and lower the risk of spreading COVID-19 to others. Get your vaccine booster The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus suffer health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 People at higher risk of serious illness can get antiviral medicines. When taken early on in your COVID-19 illness, antivirals can help you get better faster and stay out of hospital. Medicines to treat COVID-19 With case numbers falling, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines to treat COVID-19, it is safe to remove most COVID-19 rules and end border restrictions. Protecting lives and livelihoods remains the goal of the Government’s COVID-19 response. The next phase of our COVID-19 response High rates of vaccination is our main tool to protect people and minimise the spread of COVID-19. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing helps monitor COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is a surveillance tool alongside testing community and border cases. COVID-19 wastewater testing The Institute of Environmental Science and Research (ESR) tests wastewater around the country. An interactive dashboard shares ESR’s wastewater science. It can help you track potential COVID-19 risk in your area. Wastewater testing results | Institute of Environmental Science and Research (external link) To monitor for new variants arriving from overseas, the Government uses: follow-up PCR (polymerase chain reaction) tests and genome sequencing of positive cases in travellers targeted surveillance at the border. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. --- Section Separator --- It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | World Health Organization (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The Ministry of Health provides updates on variants and has a framework to prepare and respond to any new variants of concern. COVID-19 variants | Ministry of Health (external link) Omicron was first classified as a variant of concern by WHO in November 2021. It has spread worldwide and is now the major variant in many countries. Compared to Delta, Omicron: is more infectious causes similar symptoms, but because we have a highly vaccinated population, many people have milder or no symptoms (though could still pass the virus on to others) puts many more people in hospital, because Omicron can cause many more infections over a short period of time can still cause severe illness and even death, especially in people at high risk of serious illness, such as older people and people with underlying health conditions. Omicron, like other variants, continues to change. Variants and sub-variants in New Zealand include: BA.2 — dominant in early 2022 BA.2.12.1, BA.4 and BA.5 — first detected in New Zealand in late April 2022 BA.2.75 — first detected in New Zealand in July 2022, may be slightly more infectious than BA.2. Although new variants of Omicron continue to emerge, there does not appear to have been a change in the severity of COVID-19. New Zealand's public health settings to manage current Omicron variants are appropriate for its subvariants. Omicron variants | Ministry of Health (external link) To identify which variant a person has, there needs to be whole-genome sequencing from a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. We encourage people arriving from overseas to do rapid antigen tests (RATs). Those who test positive should have a follow-up PCR test to identify the variant. --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Healthy habits include handwashing and wearing a face mask in crowded indoor places. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means if you have COVID-19, you are far less likely to: get very sick need to go to hospital infect other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, this protection can decrease over time. Booster doses reduce the chance of serious illness and lower the risk of spreading COVID-19 to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus suffer health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- People at higher risk of serious illness can get antiviral medicines. When taken early on in your COVID-19 illness, antivirals can help you get better faster and stay out of hospital. Medicines to treat COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- With case numbers falling, a highly vaccinated population, and increased access to antiviral medicines to treat COVID-19, it is safe to remove most COVID-19 rules and end border restrictions. Protecting lives and livelihoods remains the goal of the Government’s COVID-19 response. The next phase of our COVID-19 response High rates of vaccination is our main tool to protect people and minimise the spread of COVID-19. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing helps monitor COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is a surveillance tool alongside testing community and border cases. COVID-19 wastewater testing The Institute of Environmental Science and Research (ESR) tests wastewater around the country. An interactive dashboard shares ESR’s wastewater science. It can help you track potential COVID-19 risk in your area. Wastewater testing results | Institute of Environmental Science and Research (external link) To monitor for new variants arriving from overseas, the Government uses: follow-up PCR (polymerase chain reaction) tests and genome sequencing of positive cases in travellers targeted surveillance at the border. --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Infection and immunity Wastewater testing
Get ready for a safe-as summer. Enjoy summer this year by being prepared and knowing how to stay safe. What you need to know Report your RATs COVID-19 health advice Support and information for disabled people Advice for international travellers --- Section Separator --- Keep up to date with your vaccinations, including boosters, before you go on holiday. Māori and Pacific people aged 40 and over can now get the second booster. Have enough RATs to test everyone in your whānau over the holidays and take some with you if you are travelling. Order them online or by phone and pick them up from collection sites around the motu. If you get COVID-19 while travelling this summer, have a plan to get home and where to safely isolate. Take RATs, hand sanitiser, face masks, and your usual medications with you. --- Section Separator --- Keep up to date with your vaccinations, including boosters, before you go on holiday. Māori and Pacific people aged 40 and over can now get the second booster. Have enough RATs to test everyone in your whānau over the holidays and take some with you if you are travelling. Order them online or by phone and pick them up from collection sites around the motu. If you get COVID-19 while travelling this summer, have a plan to get home and where to safely isolate. Take RATs, hand sanitiser, face masks, and your usual medications with you. --- Section Separator --- If you are hosting or inviting people into your home: have hand sanitiser available open the windows and doors eat outdoors when possible spend time outside. If you or anyone in your home is sick, do not host gatherings or invite people over. Encourage friends and whānau who are unwell to test for COVID-19 and stay home. If you are attending events: do not go to an event if you are sick test immediately if you develop any COVID-19 symptoms stay outdoors as much as possible wash or sanitise your hands when you arrive and leave an event. --- Section Separator --- To avoid infection and reinfection from COVID-19, there are a few things you can do to protect yourself. Stay home if you are sick, limit your time in crowded indoor spaces, and eat outdoors when possible. Always carry a face mask with you and wear it in crowded indoor spaces. You must wear a face mask when visiting healthcare services. You can get free face masks when you pick up RATs. If you have symptoms take a test immediately. If it is positive, you will need to self-isolate for 7 days. Report your RAT and find out what else you need to do if you have COVID-19. If you get symptoms while away from home, take a RAT immediately. Do not wait to get home. If you test positive, you will need to isolate where you are or drive home. If you are sick do not travel or take part in events or activities. Find out what you need to do when self-isolating, including reasons you are permitted to leave self-isolation. Free antivirals can help people who are at risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19. They reduce the amount of virus and your chances of hospitalisation. Antivirals must be started within 5 days of getting sick. --- Section Separator --- To avoid infection and reinfection from COVID-19, there are a few things you can do to protect yourself. Stay home if you are sick, limit your time in crowded indoor spaces, and eat outdoors when possible. Always carry a face mask with you and wear it in crowded indoor spaces. You must wear a face mask when visiting healthcare services. You can get free face masks when you pick up RATs. If you have symptoms take a test immediately. If it is positive, you will need to self-isolate for 7 days. Report your RAT and find out what else you need to do if you have COVID-19. If you get symptoms while away from home, take a RAT immediately. Do not wait to get home. If you test positive, you will need to isolate where you are or drive home. If you are sick do not travel or take part in events or activities. Find out what you need to do when self-isolating, including reasons you are permitted to leave self-isolation. Free antivirals can help people who are at risk of becoming very sick with COVID-19. They reduce the amount of virus and your chances of hospitalisation. Antivirals must be started within 5 days of getting sick. --- Section Separator --- Call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for free COVID health advice anytime, even on public holidays. For any other non-urgent health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 for free. Check with your usual doctor or health provider about their hours over the holiday period. Call the COVID-19 disability helpline for free on 0800 11 12 13 or text 8988 . It can help with vaccines, testing, face mask exemptions and managing COVID-19. It is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Hospital emergency departments and most urgent care clinics remain open. If it is an emergency, always call 111 .
This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. Popular topics What happens if you get COVID-19 Get a COVID-19 test Get RATs delivered If you cannot wear a face mask If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 Get a booster Translations --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 disability helpline can provide help or information about vaccines, face mask exemptions, testing, and managing COVID-19 at home. This includes if your support worker or carer is unavailable. Call 0800 11 12 13 for free. If you are unable to call, you can text 8988 . The COVID-19 welfare phone line can help if you are self-isolating and need food or other essential items. Call 0800 512 337 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- We aim to produce information in alternate formats as fast as possible. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille --- Section Separator --- You may need a test if: you have symptoms of COVID-19 you live with someone who has COVID-19 you are travelling your job needs you to take tests. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 312 KB] You can order RATs online or over the phone to use at home. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. You will need access to a mobile phone to order online. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. Order RATs online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Order over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. Find your nearest testing centre: COVID-19 testing sites | Healthpoint (external link) Talk to your doctor or residential care provider. You can also get free advice from the Disability Healthline. Call 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 . If you have mobility or other accessibility challenges and are unable to leave your home to get to a collection site, you can arrange to have a RAT kit delivered to you. Free call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Report your positive or negative RAT result by phone or online. Reporting a result means you can get extra support if you need it while self-isolating. Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Online: My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. You can order RATs for yourself or on behalf of someone else. You will need access to a mobile phone to confirm your order. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. You can order RATs for yourself or on behalf of someone else. You will need access to a mobile phone to confirm your order. --- Section Separator --- Report your positive RAT result online or over the phone. Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Online: My Covid Record (external link) If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with trusted, up-to-date information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so that you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . You need to self-isolate for 7 days. This means you must stay at home and try to avoid contact with people you live with. Start counting from Day 0. This is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive (whichever came first). Create your household isolation and testing timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 7 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. Advice for carers on supporting someone who has COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. --- Section Separator --- A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19. You can get a booster now if: you are aged 18 or over and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course you are aged 16 or 17 and it has been 6 months since you completed your primary course. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition Some people who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you the best possible protection. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. Vaccination for people who are severely immunocompromised | health.govt.nz (external link) A second booster is recommended for those at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a minimum of 6 months after a first booster. Find out if you are eligible for a second booster To book your vaccination or get advice: call the Disability Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 text free to 8988 email accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz --- Section Separator --- Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. --- Section Separator --- Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. --- Section Separator --- Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Financial support Support is available if you need it when self-isolating because of COVID-19. Help when you are self-isolating If you test positive, let your support provider know that you have COVID-19 so they can put protective measures in place. Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow appropriate infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | Ministry of Health (external link) If you need urgent support and your support worker or carer is unavailable, you can call the dedicated disability helpline on 0800 11 12 13 . Or you can text them on 8988. This could be if: your support worker is unavailable and cannot provide the essential support you need you are unable to reach the organisation that normally provides your care there is no one available to provide the support you need. The 0800 11 12 13 service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, from 8am to 8pm. A person with experience or knowledge of disability will answer the call and assess the urgency of your situation and provide advice or assistance. After 8pm, calls will be answered by a trained member of the Healthline team. The call centre will work with you to determine what needs to happen, how urgent your situation is and if medical or other emergency services are needed. As always, if there is an emergency, or there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. Call the Ministry of Social Development's free COVID-19 Welfare line on 0800 512 337 . They can help you with: food and essential items mobile data so you can keep in contact with friends and whānau support for personal care or daily tasks talking to your employer if you are worried about your leave or pay mental health support support with family or sexual violence. Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others from COVID-19. We encourage you to wear one whenever you can. If you are taking a taxi or ride-share, you can ask the driver to wear a face mask. You can also put the windows down for ventilation. For some people, an impairment, disability, or physical or mental health condition can mean wearing a mask is not possible. If you have a legitimate reason that means wearing a face mask is not suitable, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can also request a card by calling 0800 11 12 13 or by texting 8988. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. We encourage you to wear one whenever you can. Different types of face masks offer different protection. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting with no gaps and used correctly and consistently. This will help to protect you and others from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. We encourage you to wear one whenever you can. Different types of face masks offer different protection. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting with no gaps and used correctly and consistently. This will help to protect you and others from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) ended on 12 September. With case numbers low, it is safe to remove most COVID-19 rules. The information on this page has been updated. About the changes
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for Pacific Peoples Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni, tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Information in Pacific languages: Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu --- Section Separator --- Most COVID-19 rules have ended, but we can choose how to keep each other safe. For example, places such as churches may choose to ask people to wear a face mask. You must still: isolate for 7 days if you have COVID-19 wear a face mask in healthcare places, such as hospitals or aged care centres. --- Section Separator --- 0800 Ola Lelei – 0800 652 535 Free wellbeing services and resources --- Section Separator --- It's time to dial up the talanoa, helping our youth to navigate COVID-19 conversations with their parents, family and peers. Let's Talanoa with Dr Lesina Nakhid-Schuster and Rokalani Lavea. The Ministry for Pacific Peoples has created an educational video about the Pfizer vaccine that is also available in 9 Pacific languages. When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. The vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 12 and over. It will help to protect Aotearoa from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Get your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Make sure you get the latest news and updates from reliable sources. Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples Facebook page (external link) Pacific Media Network (external link) Tagata Pasifika (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu
Home Prepare and stay safe Looking after your mental wellbeing It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help if you are not coping or have concerns for others. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 has had a significant impact on how we interact with others, go about our lives, our work, study and many other aspects of our lives. We know stress and uncertainty can have a significant impact on the mental wellbeing of people in New Zealand. It is normal to not feel all right all the time — it is understandable to feel sad, distressed, worried, confused, anxious or angry during this time. Everyone reacts differently to difficult events, and some may find this time more challenging than others. Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. Here you can find information on tools to support your own and others’ mental wellbeing and where to get help if you need it. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 keeps throwing new challenges our way. Find support, tips and advice to help you look after your mental health on the All Sorts website. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Small Steps are digital tools to help you maintain wellness, find relief, or get help for yourself, friends or whānau. The Groov app helps you monitor, manage and improve your mental wellbeing. You can pick your own daily goals and track your progress. Designed for and with Aotearoa's young people, Headstrong includes the Aroha chatbot ⁠— your virtual wellbeing guide. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, the Mental Health Foundation has information on coping with mixed emotions and wellbeing tips for home isolation. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 keeps throwing new challenges our way. Find support, tips and advice to help you look after your mental health on the All Sorts website. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Small Steps are digital tools to help you maintain wellness, find relief, or get help for yourself, friends or whānau. The Groov app helps you monitor, manage and improve your mental wellbeing. You can pick your own daily goals and track your progress. Designed for and with Aotearoa's young people, Headstrong includes the Aroha chatbot ⁠— your virtual wellbeing guide. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, the Mental Health Foundation has information on coping with mixed emotions and wellbeing tips for home isolation. --- Section Separator --- Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines and support (external link) --- Section Separator --- Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā | Mental Health Foundation (external link) --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. --- Section Separator --- Netsafe has information and resources to stay safe online. You can also report online incidents or harmful content such as misinformation or scams. Misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines work against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. If anyone in your whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. If you find any illegal content online, you can make a complaint to the Department of Internal Affairs. --- Section Separator --- Netsafe has information and resources to stay safe online. You can also report online incidents or harmful content such as misinformation or scams. Misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines work against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. If anyone in your whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. If you find any illegal content online, you can make a complaint to the Department of Internal Affairs.
Home Prepare and stay safe People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if you: have compromised immunity have a high-risk medical condition are older are an infant under the age of 1 month are a child under the age of 2 who was born premature (less than 37 weeks) are a child with multiple chronic conditions. Our restrictions have eased, but we still need to keep up healthy habits to keep ourselves and our whānau safe. Our high vaccination rates mean we can slowly start to focus on returning to a normal way of life. For some people, the easing of restrictions can be stressful — especially if we have friends or whānau who are vulnerable. It is okay to feel scared or anxious as we adjust to the new settings. You can decide what additional measures suit you best. Let whānau, friends, neighbours and colleagues know what they can do to support you. If you are worried, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Get your booster if you are eligible. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition. Keep a safe distance away from people you do not live with — except for your carer or support workers. Wear a face mask whenever you leave home. If you have visitors at home, ask them to wear a face mask. Ask friends or whānau who do not live with you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT) before they visit. Stay at home if you are unwell. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms as soon as you start to feel unwell — even if the symptoms are mild. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Try to avoid large crowds — if the supermarket is busy, try again later, or use other options like click and collect. If possible, arrange to meet with friends and whānau outside. If it makes you feel more comfortable, you can ask them to wear a face mask. If you are gathering indoors, let fresh air in to reduce the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19. Even though the number of people who can gather indoors has increased, organisers still need to follow public health guidelines to keep everyone safe. You could ask the organisers for a livestream option, if you feel more comfortable participating from home. Stay connected — if you are not ready to start socialising in large groups, find other ways to keep in touch with close friends and whānau. If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. You still need to order through the Request free COVID-19 RAT kits website. Request free RATs | Ministry of Health (external link) (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) (external link) Even if you have had COVID-19, you should still get any COVID-19 vaccinations you are eligible for. We recommend you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. If you are at high risk of getting seriously ill if you do test positive for COVID-19 again, we recommend you talk to your doctor or health professional for advice on the best timing for your vaccinations. You may be able to receive your vaccination sooner. As restrictions ease, your employer may ask you to return to the workplace. We encourage you to talk to your employer about flexible working arrangements. If you have been working from home for a long time, it can take a while to adjust back to working in an office or other workplace. Let your colleagues and employer know if there is something they can do to make working easier and safer for you. If you work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working. If your child is immunocompromised, or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk to their school or kura about whether changes can be made at their school. The best way to protect your tamariki is by getting them vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination advice for 5 to 11 year olds You can support friends and whānau by: meeting outside where there is better ventilation. You may want to wear a face mask if it is difficult to keep a safe distance away isolating away from them if you test positive for COVID-19, or are unwell offering to drop off groceries or essential supplies not visiting them if you are unwell keeping in touch with them, and checking up on their physical and mental wellbeing checking if their aged residential care facility has extra measures in place for visitors being kind and showing compassion for others. Give other people space, and keep a safe distance away. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support You can find support to access food and other essential supplies, and if you need help with accommodation. COVID-19 support Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- You are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if you: have compromised immunity have a high-risk medical condition are older are an infant under the age of 1 month are a child under the age of 2 who was born premature (less than 37 weeks) are a child with multiple chronic conditions. --- Section Separator --- Our restrictions have eased, but we still need to keep up healthy habits to keep ourselves and our whānau safe. Our high vaccination rates mean we can slowly start to focus on returning to a normal way of life. For some people, the easing of restrictions can be stressful — especially if we have friends or whānau who are vulnerable. It is okay to feel scared or anxious as we adjust to the new settings. You can decide what additional measures suit you best. Let whānau, friends, neighbours and colleagues know what they can do to support you. If you are worried, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Get your booster if you are eligible. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition. Keep a safe distance away from people you do not live with — except for your carer or support workers. Wear a face mask whenever you leave home. If you have visitors at home, ask them to wear a face mask. Ask friends or whānau who do not live with you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT) before they visit. Stay at home if you are unwell. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms as soon as you start to feel unwell — even if the symptoms are mild. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Try to avoid large crowds — if the supermarket is busy, try again later, or use other options like click and collect. If possible, arrange to meet with friends and whānau outside. If it makes you feel more comfortable, you can ask them to wear a face mask. If you are gathering indoors, let fresh air in to reduce the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19. Even though the number of people who can gather indoors has increased, organisers still need to follow public health guidelines to keep everyone safe. You could ask the organisers for a livestream option, if you feel more comfortable participating from home. Stay connected — if you are not ready to start socialising in large groups, find other ways to keep in touch with close friends and whānau. If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. You still need to order through the Request free COVID-19 RAT kits website. Request free RATs | Ministry of Health (external link) (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) (external link) Even if you have had COVID-19, you should still get any COVID-19 vaccinations you are eligible for. We recommend you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. If you are at high risk of getting seriously ill if you do test positive for COVID-19 again, we recommend you talk to your doctor or health professional for advice on the best timing for your vaccinations. You may be able to receive your vaccination sooner. --- Section Separator --- As restrictions ease, your employer may ask you to return to the workplace. We encourage you to talk to your employer about flexible working arrangements. If you have been working from home for a long time, it can take a while to adjust back to working in an office or other workplace. Let your colleagues and employer know if there is something they can do to make working easier and safer for you. If you work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working. If your child is immunocompromised, or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk to their school or kura about whether changes can be made at their school. The best way to protect your tamariki is by getting them vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination advice for 5 to 11 year olds --- Section Separator --- You can support friends and whānau by: meeting outside where there is better ventilation. You may want to wear a face mask if it is difficult to keep a safe distance away isolating away from them if you test positive for COVID-19, or are unwell offering to drop off groceries or essential supplies not visiting them if you are unwell keeping in touch with them, and checking up on their physical and mental wellbeing checking if their aged residential care facility has extra measures in place for visitors being kind and showing compassion for others. Give other people space, and keep a safe distance away. --- Section Separator --- There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support You can find support to access food and other essential supplies, and if you need help with accommodation. COVID-19 support Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Protect yourself and others Looking after your mental wellbeing COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help Have a safe-as summer
Home Prepare and stay safe Preparing to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you must self-isolate for 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket, or to pick up essential supplies, like medication. You will need to have a plan for someone to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you need to self-isolate. Download: COVID-19 isolation plan [PDF, 86 KB] Household Contacts no longer need to isolate for 7 days. If you live with someone who tests positive for COVID-19, we recommend you: take a rapid antigen test (RAT) each day for 5 days avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts Make a plan for how you will get food and essential supplies. You may want to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs, or you can use a food delivery service. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything dropped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. If you need support while self-isolating Put together a hygiene kit with things like hand sanitiser, gloves, face masks, cleaning products and extra rubbish bags. If you have people in your household who need extra support, make a plan for their care. If you have shared custody arrangements, talk to your child’s other parent or caregiver to decide what will happen. Looking after your physical and mental wellbeing is important while you are at home. Try to think of ways you can get fresh air, or do some exercise. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood — but you cannot use any shared facilities, like a public swimming pool. Keep a safe distance from others when exercising. Looking after your mental wellbeing Check that you have basic medical supplies to help manage your symptoms. This could include pain relief, a thermometer, nasal spray, lozenges and your regular medications. If you are isolating and need medicine, you can contact your doctor or local pharmacy to arrange a delivery, or ask friends and whānau to collect it for you. Make a list of whānau information — include NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medications or medical supplies each person will need if they have to self-isolate. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, after-hours services, and any support agencies. Talk to your employer and child’s school so you and your tamariki are set up for working and learning from home. If you cannot work from home, talk to your employer about your pay and sick leave entitlements. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) Everyone’s living situation is different — you may be in a large family, living with flatmates, or you may live alone. For some people, it will be easier to limit contact with other household members if they have access to their own bathroom and bedroom. Talk with the people you live with to make a plan for how you will manage any shared spaces. Share your plan with wider whānau and neighbours and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. How to self-isolate Make a list of activities you can do to help pass the time. Have a plan with friends and whānau to stay connected online. Check you have enough pet food and supplies. If you are unable to look after a pet, ask someone else to care for them while you are self-isolating. There are some different things you will need to plan for if you get COVID-19 while you are away from home and travelling. If you get COVID-19 while travelling Work out how to let people know you are self-isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 88 KB] --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you must self-isolate for 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket, or to pick up essential supplies, like medication. You will need to have a plan for someone to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you need to self-isolate. Download: COVID-19 isolation plan [PDF, 86 KB] --- Section Separator --- Household Contacts no longer need to isolate for 7 days. If you live with someone who tests positive for COVID-19, we recommend you: take a rapid antigen test (RAT) each day for 5 days avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Make a plan for how you will get food and essential supplies. You may want to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs, or you can use a food delivery service. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything dropped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. If you need support while self-isolating Put together a hygiene kit with things like hand sanitiser, gloves, face masks, cleaning products and extra rubbish bags. If you have people in your household who need extra support, make a plan for their care. If you have shared custody arrangements, talk to your child’s other parent or caregiver to decide what will happen. Looking after your physical and mental wellbeing is important while you are at home. Try to think of ways you can get fresh air, or do some exercise. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood — but you cannot use any shared facilities, like a public swimming pool. Keep a safe distance from others when exercising. Looking after your mental wellbeing Check that you have basic medical supplies to help manage your symptoms. This could include pain relief, a thermometer, nasal spray, lozenges and your regular medications. If you are isolating and need medicine, you can contact your doctor or local pharmacy to arrange a delivery, or ask friends and whānau to collect it for you. Make a list of whānau information — include NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medications or medical supplies each person will need if they have to self-isolate. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, after-hours services, and any support agencies. Talk to your employer and child’s school so you and your tamariki are set up for working and learning from home. If you cannot work from home, talk to your employer about your pay and sick leave entitlements. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) Everyone’s living situation is different — you may be in a large family, living with flatmates, or you may live alone. For some people, it will be easier to limit contact with other household members if they have access to their own bathroom and bedroom. Talk with the people you live with to make a plan for how you will manage any shared spaces. Share your plan with wider whānau and neighbours and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. How to self-isolate Make a list of activities you can do to help pass the time. Have a plan with friends and whānau to stay connected online. Check you have enough pet food and supplies. If you are unable to look after a pet, ask someone else to care for them while you are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- There are some different things you will need to plan for if you get COVID-19 while you are away from home and travelling. If you get COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Work out how to let people know you are self-isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 88 KB] --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Protect yourself and others Looking after your mental wellbeing COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help Have a safe-as summer
Home Prepare and stay safe Protect yourself and others COVID-19 is in the community. To slow the spread and continue to protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can get a booster if it has been at least 3 months since your second dose. We recommend a second booster for those at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Check if you are eligible Vaccination remains one of the best tools in the fight against COVID-19. Even if you have had COVID-19, getting a booster once enough time has passed gives you another a layer of protection from the virus. Being up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccinations also helps protect people who are more at risk of becoming seriously ill from the virus and people who cannot be vaccinated such as babies and children under 5 years old. COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- Staying home if you are sick can stop the spread of COVID-19. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. It is also important to test before visiting vulnerable people. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. COVID-19 symptoms How to get a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- There are locations where there is a greater risk of infection spreading between people. These include: public transport — buses, trains, indoors on ferries and flights closed indoor spaces with poor ventilation crowded places close-contact settings, for example, if there are face-to-face conversations, shouting or singing. Consider limiting the time you spend indoors with large groups of other people. If you cannot avoid crowds, wear a well-fitting face mask to help protect you. Eat and drink outside when possible. If you are hosting or inviting people into your home: have hand sanitiser available open the windows and doors eat outdoors when possible spend time outside. --- Section Separator --- Face masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. They are useful in poorly ventilated indoor areas and when you are in a crowd of people. They stop particles from spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. Respirator-type masks such as N95, KN95 or FFP2 masks also help prevent you from breathing in the virus. This is particularly useful when someone has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. You must wear one when visiting healthcare services. Wearing a face mask --- Section Separator --- You are not required to maintain physical distance from others. But it is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people while you are out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 in the community. --- Section Separator --- Good ventilation helps remove COVID-19 virus particles in the air. We encourage you to let in fresh air every day, including after someone visits your home, shop or office. If you can, partly open a window about 5cm for most of the day. Or open windows for at least 15 minutes as often as possible, whenever it is practical to do so. If your windows do not open, check if your ventilation system filters (cleans) the air. Ventilation and COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash or sanitise your hands. This will catch the droplets and keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to others people, surfaces or objects. --- Section Separator --- Washing or sanitising your hands is 1 of the easiest ways to keep yourself and others safe. Wash your hands often with soap and water for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. Using an alcohol-based hand sanitiser is also effective at killing germs and viruses. The sanitiser needs to be at least 60% alcohol. Make sure you use enough product to cover your hands, rub it in and allow it to dry. You should wash or sanitise your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth, if your hands are not clean. Either way you clean your hands, it will kill the COVID-19 virus by bursting its protective bubble. Keeping your hands clean also prevents other types of germs and viruses. This is especially important if you are visiting vulnerable people. --- Section Separator --- Clean surfaces regularly. This includes frequently touched items like door handles, light switches and phones. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Use regular household cleaning products and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- As Omicron is now widespread, we no longer need to contact trace individual cases. This means you do not need to keep a record of where you have been for contact tracing purposes. In case you do test positive for COVID-19, it is still a good idea to: keep track of people you have been with record any high-risk locations you have visited, for example hospitals or aged care facilities keep Bluetooth tracing turned on. We encourage you to not remove the NZ COVID Tracer app from your phone just yet. Bluetooth tracing is still being used to notify people if they have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing | Ministry of Health (external link) The contact tracing system may need to return if another variant of concern arrives in New Zealand. Keep track of where you have been
Home Prepare and stay safe Protect yourself and others Face masks Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. Find out when you must wear them, how to wear them safely, who is exempt, and how to get free face masks. --- Section Separator --- As cases rise, we strongly encourage you to wear a face mask in closed, crowded and confined spaces, for example on public transport. Wearing a face mask helps prevent the spread of COVID-19 in 2 ways. Face masks: reduce the number of virus particles someone with COVID-19 can spread prevent you from inhaling virus particles. Face masks help protect yourself and others around you, especially people who are at higher risk of getting very sick. This includes older people, people with compromised immunity and disabled people. The best protection is when everyone wears a face mask. You should find a good quality face mask that fits you well and is comfortable to wear. How to wear a face mask safely --- Section Separator --- You can get free medical face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. To get free face masks, order online: Request free RATs and face masks | Ministry of Health (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You must wear one when visiting healthcare services. If you cannot wear a face mask you can get a Mask Exemption Pass. Different types of face masks offer different protection. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting with no gaps and used correctly and consistently. This will help to protect you and others from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. It should go over your nose, mouth and chin. It should be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides. You can easily make a fabric face mask. It should have 3 layers, with 1 layer of moisture-resistant fabric. It should have loops around your ears or head. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You must wear one when visiting healthcare services. If you cannot wear a face mask you can get a Mask Exemption Pass. Different types of face masks offer different protection. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting with no gaps and used correctly and consistently. This will help to protect you and others from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. It should go over your nose, mouth and chin. It should be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides. You can easily make a fabric face mask. It should have 3 layers, with 1 layer of moisture-resistant fabric. It should have loops around your ears or head. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Prepare and stay safe Protect yourself and others Face masks How to make a face mask --- Section Separator --- You can still make and wear fabric face masks. Fabric face masks should have at least 3 layers and are effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. They must be attached to your head with loops around your ears or head — you cannot use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts that have been pulled up over your face. Your face mask should cover your nose, mouth and chin. When you must wear a face mask Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Moisture-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Optional: Swap a cotton piece of fabric for a non-woven fabric like spunbond to enhance filtration, 19.5 x 19 cm Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. To enhance filtration of your face mask, you can swap the inner layer to use spunbond. Cut out a rectangle from the moisture-resistant fabric for the outer layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take the outer piece of fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of fabric together (with the spunbond in the middle, if using). Make sure the moisture-resistant fabric that will be on the outside of your face mask is turned inwards here. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face mask in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. --- Section Separator --- You can still make and wear fabric face masks. Fabric face masks should have at least 3 layers and are effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. They must be attached to your head with loops around your ears or head — you cannot use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts that have been pulled up over your face. Your face mask should cover your nose, mouth and chin. When you must wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Moisture-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Optional: Swap a cotton piece of fabric for a non-woven fabric like spunbond to enhance filtration, 19.5 x 19 cm Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. To enhance filtration of your face mask, you can swap the inner layer to use spunbond. Cut out a rectangle from the moisture-resistant fabric for the outer layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take the outer piece of fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of fabric together (with the spunbond in the middle, if using). Make sure the moisture-resistant fabric that will be on the outside of your face mask is turned inwards here. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face mask in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. --- Section Separator --- Face masks Wearing a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Wearing a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Keep track of where you have been Ventilation and COVID-19
Home Prepare and stay safe Protect yourself and others Face masks How to wear a face mask safely --- Section Separator --- Never share face masks with other people. Your face mask should go over your nose, mouth and chin. It should be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides. Do not re-use a face mask once it has become damp, damaged or dirty. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. They still have the right to access food and services. Before you put on your face mask, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Place the face mask over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face mask should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. The effectiveness of a face mask can be improved by making sure your mask is tightly fitted to prevent any air gaps between the mask and your face. Clean or sanitise your hands first. Fold the mask top to bottom. Tie a knot where the string attaches to the mask and pull tight. Do this on both sides of the mask. Place the face mask over your nose, mouth and chin. Fit the mask comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face. Make sure you mould the nose wire to your nose and there are no gaps at the sides. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your mask down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your mask off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the mask, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth masks by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the mask completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp mask. Dispose of used face masks in your general household rubbish bin. Do not put them in the recycling. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. How to put on and take off a medical face mask [PDF, 294 KB] How to put on and take off a P2/N95 face mask [PDF, 702 KB] How to make your medical face mask fit tightly [PDF, 146 KB] --- Section Separator --- Never share face masks with other people. Your face mask should go over your nose, mouth and chin. It should be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides. Do not re-use a face mask once it has become damp, damaged or dirty. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. They still have the right to access food and services. --- Section Separator --- Before you put on your face mask, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Place the face mask over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face mask should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- The effectiveness of a face mask can be improved by making sure your mask is tightly fitted to prevent any air gaps between the mask and your face. Clean or sanitise your hands first. Fold the mask top to bottom. Tie a knot where the string attaches to the mask and pull tight. Do this on both sides of the mask. Place the face mask over your nose, mouth and chin. Fit the mask comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face. Make sure you mould the nose wire to your nose and there are no gaps at the sides. --- Section Separator --- If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your mask down below your chin. --- Section Separator --- Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your mask off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the mask, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth masks by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the mask completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp mask. Dispose of used face masks in your general household rubbish bin. Do not put them in the recycling. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- How to put on and take off a medical face mask [PDF, 294 KB] How to put on and take off a P2/N95 face mask [PDF, 702 KB] How to make your medical face mask fit tightly [PDF, 146 KB] --- Section Separator --- Face masks Wearing a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Wearing a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Keep track of where you have been Ventilation and COVID-19
Home Prepare and stay safe Protect yourself and others Face masks Types of face masks --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. To be effective, a face mask should: go over your nose, mouth and chin be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides be used correctly and consistently not be damp, damaged or dirty. A face mask that is not fitted correctly may become ineffective. It may not offer enough protection for you or those around you against COVID-19 spreading. How to wear a face mask safely Different types of face masks can provide different levels of protection, depending on the type of mask and how they are used. You should find a face mask that best fits you. A face mask must attach to your face by loops around your ears or head. There are several things you should think about when choosing a face mask for you. This includes: your risk of illness from COVID-19 how well the face mask fits you layers and the filtration ability of the material comfort of the face mask. Whatever face mask you choose, remember any face mask is better than no face mask. You can use a fabric face mask. The effectiveness of fabric face masks can vary depending on the style and materials used. You should look for reusable fabric face masks that have at least 3 layers and are made of tightly woven fabric, such as cotton. Ideally face masks should also use 2 different types of fabric that still allow easy breathing but provide filtration and a good fit. Face masks with more than one layer will help contain any respiratory droplets. You can increase protection of your fabric face mask by adding a ‘filter layer’ and a nose bridge wire to mould the face mask to your face. A filter layer could be a specific face mask filter or a cut-down disposable face mask to add to a face mask pocket. Fabric face masks can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. Taking care of your face mask is important. You should wash fabric face masks daily using soap and hot water, and completely dry them before using again. You should have enough face masks to at least wash one and wear one. Check for wear and tear to make sure there are no holes and they are still in good condition. Many stores and online retailers offer these types of face masks. You can also make your own but make sure it has at least 3 layers. How to make a face covering Disposable face masks with ear loops can offer better protection for a longer period than fabric face masks. Especially when you are in a higher-risk indoor setting. These are the widely available ‘blue’ medical masks. They are often called ‘medical’, ‘surgical’ and ‘procedural’ masks. For use in healthcare, they must comply to a certain standard. Many surgical masks may not be certified to medical standards, but still provide effective protection. You can find these at many retail stores, supermarkets or pharmacies. Some relevant social services agencies or organisations may also be able to provide some. To make these masks fit better and get a snug fit: pinch the nose wire try layering them with a fabric mask over top knot the ear loops where they attach to the mask, then fold and tuck excess material under the edges try pulling the ear loops back and securing them with a hair tie or clip. How to wear a face mask safely Try to avoid twisting the ear loop into a figure 8, as this will likely cause a side gap that could let virus particles in. Double masking or layering can provide greater protection. The other layer, preferably a fabric mask, can help stop any leaks around the top and sides of the bottom mask. To reuse these masks, you can soak them in warm, hot or boiling water for a few minutes and hang them out to dry. You can do this up to 10 times. When they start to show wear or no longer have a good fit, dispose of them in your general household rubbish bin. Disposable high-filtration face masks or particulate respirators offer the highest level of protection when used correctly. For people who are at greater risk of severe illness from COVID-19, the use of a P2/N95 face mask may be a better choice for you. If you choose to wear this type of face mask, it is important to follow the manufacturer's instructions on how to mold these face masks to your face. You need to make sure there are no gaps and you have a tight seal against your face. These face masks can offer hours of protection when in high-risk indoor settings where there is no or little ventilation. But they need to have a very tight seal around the face to provide better protection than a well-fitting medical mask. In healthcare settings, these face masks work best when a person is ‘fit tested’ to make sure they have the right type of face mask that suits their face. Do not wash these face masks. These face masks have a special static charge that traps viruses. You can reuse these face masks several times if you leave them for a few days between each use in a cool, dry place. If they no longer provide a tight seal around your face, or are dirty or damaged, then you should dispose of them in your general household rubbish bin. Particulate respirator face masks come in a variety of models, prices, availability and suitability. They are often identified by which international regulatory standard they meet. P2 is the Australia/New Zealand respiratory standard. N95 is the United States respiratory standard. KN95 is the Chinese respiratory standard. FFP2 is the European respiratory standard. Choose a face mask for children that fits them best, is comfortable to wear and can be worn consistently. The face mask should cover their nose, mouth, and chin without gaps above, below or on the sides. This can be a reusable fabric mask with 3 layers or a medical disposable mask. Many fabric masks (either purchased or made) come in child sizes. For commonly available medical masks, you can use the knot and tuck technique to improve the fit to a child's face. How to make a face mask fit tightly These types of face masks or coverings provide very little protection against transmission of COVID-19. A face shield is not recommended to be worn instead of a face mask as it will provide very little protection against droplets or aerosols. Dust masks or particulate respirators that have a 1-way valve are not recommended as they can allow particles from you to spread to others. Masks that are showing wear and tear. If there is any thinning of the material, holes, or the ties or elastic loops can no longer keep the mask in place, you should replace it. Scarves, bandannas, buffs or t-shirts are no longer acceptable as face coverings. --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. To be effective, a face mask should: go over your nose, mouth and chin be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides be used correctly and consistently not be damp, damaged or dirty. A face mask that is not fitted correctly may become ineffective. It may not offer enough protection for you or those around you against COVID-19 spreading. How to wear a face mask safely --- Section Separator --- Different types of face masks can provide different levels of protection, depending on the type of mask and how they are used. You should find a face mask that best fits you. A face mask must attach to your face by loops around your ears or head. There are several things you should think about when choosing a face mask for you. This includes: your risk of illness from COVID-19 how well the face mask fits you layers and the filtration ability of the material comfort of the face mask. Whatever face mask you choose, remember any face mask is better than no face mask. --- Section Separator --- You can use a fabric face mask. The effectiveness of fabric face masks can vary depending on the style and materials used. You should look for reusable fabric face masks that have at least 3 layers and are made of tightly woven fabric, such as cotton. Ideally face masks should also use 2 different types of fabric that still allow easy breathing but provide filtration and a good fit. Face masks with more than one layer will help contain any respiratory droplets. You can increase protection of your fabric face mask by adding a ‘filter layer’ and a nose bridge wire to mould the face mask to your face. A filter layer could be a specific face mask filter or a cut-down disposable face mask to add to a face mask pocket. Fabric face masks can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. Taking care of your face mask is important. You should wash fabric face masks daily using soap and hot water, and completely dry them before using again. You should have enough face masks to at least wash one and wear one. Check for wear and tear to make sure there are no holes and they are still in good condition. Many stores and online retailers offer these types of face masks. You can also make your own but make sure it has at least 3 layers. How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- Disposable face masks with ear loops can offer better protection for a longer period than fabric face masks. Especially when you are in a higher-risk indoor setting. These are the widely available ‘blue’ medical masks. They are often called ‘medical’, ‘surgical’ and ‘procedural’ masks. For use in healthcare, they must comply to a certain standard. Many surgical masks may not be certified to medical standards, but still provide effective protection. You can find these at many retail stores, supermarkets or pharmacies. Some relevant social services agencies or organisations may also be able to provide some. To make these masks fit better and get a snug fit: pinch the nose wire try layering them with a fabric mask over top knot the ear loops where they attach to the mask, then fold and tuck excess material under the edges try pulling the ear loops back and securing them with a hair tie or clip. How to wear a face mask safely Try to avoid twisting the ear loop into a figure 8, as this will likely cause a side gap that could let virus particles in. Double masking or layering can provide greater protection. The other layer, preferably a fabric mask, can help stop any leaks around the top and sides of the bottom mask. To reuse these masks, you can soak them in warm, hot or boiling water for a few minutes and hang them out to dry. You can do this up to 10 times. When they start to show wear or no longer have a good fit, dispose of them in your general household rubbish bin. --- Section Separator --- Disposable high-filtration face masks or particulate respirators offer the highest level of protection when used correctly. For people who are at greater risk of severe illness from COVID-19, the use of a P2/N95 face mask may be a better choice for you. If you choose to wear this type of face mask, it is important to follow the manufacturer's instructions on how to mold these face masks to your face. You need to make sure there are no gaps and you have a tight seal against your face. These face masks can offer hours of protection when in high-risk indoor settings where there is no or little ventilation. But they need to have a very tight seal around the face to provide better protection than a well-fitting medical mask. In healthcare settings, these face masks work best when a person is ‘fit tested’ to make sure they have the right type of face mask that suits their face. Do not wash these face masks. These face masks have a special static charge that traps viruses. You can reuse these face masks several times if you leave them for a few days between each use in a cool, dry place. If they no longer provide a tight seal around your face, or are dirty or damaged, then you should dispose of them in your general household rubbish bin. Particulate respirator face masks come in a variety of models, prices, availability and suitability. They are often identified by which international regulatory standard they meet. P2 is the Australia/New Zealand respiratory standard. N95 is the United States respiratory standard. KN95 is the Chinese respiratory standard. FFP2 is the European respiratory standard. --- Section Separator --- Choose a face mask for children that fits them best, is comfortable to wear and can be worn consistently. The face mask should cover their nose, mouth, and chin without gaps above, below or on the sides. This can be a reusable fabric mask with 3 layers or a medical disposable mask. Many fabric masks (either purchased or made) come in child sizes. For commonly available medical masks, you can use the knot and tuck technique to improve the fit to a child's face. How to make a face mask fit tightly --- Section Separator --- These types of face masks or coverings provide very little protection against transmission of COVID-19. A face shield is not recommended to be worn instead of a face mask as it will provide very little protection against droplets or aerosols. Dust masks or particulate respirators that have a 1-way valve are not recommended as they can allow particles from you to spread to others. Masks that are showing wear and tear. If there is any thinning of the material, holes, or the ties or elastic loops can no longer keep the mask in place, you should replace it. Scarves, bandannas, buffs or t-shirts are no longer acceptable as face coverings. --- Section Separator --- Face masks Wearing a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Wearing a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Keep track of where you have been Ventilation and COVID-19
Home Prepare and stay safe Protect yourself and others Face masks Wearing a face mask --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at most healthcare services. We encourage you to wear a face mask in crowded places, such as public transport, or when visiting people at high risk. Your face mask must attach to your face by loops around your ears or head. If you are unable to wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can get free face masks when you pick up RATs from a testing centre. P2/N95 face masks will be available for people at higher risk of severe illness. Find a testing site with free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) You must wear a face mask at most healthcare services. For example, you must wear a face mask when visiting: doctors' clinics community and iwi health providers pharmacies — but not those inside supermarkets hospitals urgent care services, such as after-hours clinics dentists and oral health services disability support services residential care for older people and people with disabilities other health services such as optometrists and physiotherapists. You do not need to wear a face mask if: you live at a residential care service you visit psychotherapy, counselling, or mental health and addiction services. For patients and workers at healthcare services, face mask requirements will be decided locally. The Ministry of Health has information for staff about using personal protective equipment (PPE) such as face masks. Infection prevention and control for health and disability workers | Ministry of Health (external link) Mask-wearing in healthcare settings | Ministry of Health (external link) As cases rise, we strongly encourage you to wear a face mask in closed, crowded and confined spaces. Face masks help protect yourself and others around you, especially people who are at higher risk of getting very sick. This includes older people, people with compromised immunity and disabled people. We strongly recommend patients at any healthcare service wear a face mask if they can. Some healthcare services may ask you to wear a face mask whatever your reason for being there. We encourage you to wear a face mask if you are: a Household Contact and testing daily for 5 days at higher risk of getting seriously ill from COVID-19 keen to reduce your risk of becoming sick. We also encourage you to wear a face mask in these places: public transport, including buses, commuter trains, indoors on ferries, flights, taxis and ride-shares crowded places enclosed spaces with poor ventilation close contact settings, such as face-to-face conversations. Some places, such as workplaces, special events or marae, may still ask you to wear a face mask. Face masks remain an important defence against COVID-19. The government will regularly review their use. You can get free medical face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. To get free face masks, order online: Request free RATs and face masks | Ministry of Health (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 Face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Mask Exemption Pass — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass (external link) Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. Do not worry if someone asks whether you can wear a face mask. They just want to help keep you and others safe. It is inappropriate for someone to ask about your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, these healthy habits will help keep you and others safe: Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2-metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at most healthcare services. We encourage you to wear a face mask in crowded places, such as public transport, or when visiting people at high risk. Your face mask must attach to your face by loops around your ears or head. If you are unable to wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can get free face masks when you pick up RATs from a testing centre. P2/N95 face masks will be available for people at higher risk of severe illness. Find a testing site with free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at most healthcare services. For example, you must wear a face mask when visiting: doctors' clinics community and iwi health providers pharmacies — but not those inside supermarkets hospitals urgent care services, such as after-hours clinics dentists and oral health services disability support services residential care for older people and people with disabilities other health services such as optometrists and physiotherapists. You do not need to wear a face mask if: you live at a residential care service you visit psychotherapy, counselling, or mental health and addiction services. For patients and workers at healthcare services, face mask requirements will be decided locally. The Ministry of Health has information for staff about using personal protective equipment (PPE) such as face masks. Infection prevention and control for health and disability workers | Ministry of Health (external link) Mask-wearing in healthcare settings | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As cases rise, we strongly encourage you to wear a face mask in closed, crowded and confined spaces. Face masks help protect yourself and others around you, especially people who are at higher risk of getting very sick. This includes older people, people with compromised immunity and disabled people. We strongly recommend patients at any healthcare service wear a face mask if they can. Some healthcare services may ask you to wear a face mask whatever your reason for being there. We encourage you to wear a face mask if you are: a Household Contact and testing daily for 5 days at higher risk of getting seriously ill from COVID-19 keen to reduce your risk of becoming sick. We also encourage you to wear a face mask in these places: public transport, including buses, commuter trains, indoors on ferries, flights, taxis and ride-shares crowded places enclosed spaces with poor ventilation close contact settings, such as face-to-face conversations. Some places, such as workplaces, special events or marae, may still ask you to wear a face mask. Face masks remain an important defence against COVID-19. The government will regularly review their use. --- Section Separator --- You can get free medical face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. To get free face masks, order online: Request free RATs and face masks | Ministry of Health (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Mask Exemption Pass — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass (external link) --- Section Separator --- Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. Do not worry if someone asks whether you can wear a face mask. They just want to help keep you and others safe. It is inappropriate for someone to ask about your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, these healthy habits will help keep you and others safe: Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2-metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Face masks Wearing a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Wearing a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Keep track of where you have been Ventilation and COVID-19
Home Prepare and stay safe Protect yourself and others Keep track of where you have been It is important to keep track of high-risk locations you have been at and who you have been with, so you know who to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- As Omicron is now widespread, we no longer need to contact trace individual cases. This means you do not need to maintain records for contact tracing purposes. However, if you test positive for COVID-19, you need to tell the people you have been in contact with while infectious that you have COVID-19. This can include others you live with, your colleagues or workplace, friends, or school. Even if your contacts do not have to isolate, they should still be given the information so they can make decisions for themselves. --- Section Separator --- It is still a good idea to: keep track of people you have been with record any high-risk locations you have visited, for example hospitals or aged care facilities keep Bluetooth tracing turned on in the NZ COVID Tracer app. If you test positive, you will be sent a link to an online form, where you can share: contact details of your contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited Bluetooth data from the NZ COVID Tracer app. This information can help stop the spread of the virus in high-risk locations and protect our vulnerable communities. --- Section Separator --- You can continue to use the NZ COVID Tracer app. We recommend you keep the NZ COVID Tracer app on your phone. We may bring back the contact tracing system if another variant of concern arrives in New Zealand. You can also use the NZ COVID Tracer app to find key links to: request free RATs so you can test for COVID-19 at home if you are unwell record your RAT result book your booster dose find information if you test positive or are a Household Contact. To access these links, select ‘Dashboard’, and open the ‘more info’ tab. You should keep your Bluetooth tracing turned on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. --- Section Separator --- If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] A simplified version is available for disabled communities: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, simplified [PDF, 2.6 MB] You can also order copies of the NZ COVID Tracer booklet if you cannot print your own. You can also order booklets in other languages. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) Email: Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health is no longer publishing locations of interest. Case investigations are focused on high-risk exposures and Household Contacts.
Home Prepare and stay safe Protect yourself and others Ventilation and COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. COVID-19 mostly spreads by aerosols — small virus particles that can stay in the air for minutes to hours. Good ventilation helps remove virus particles in the air. How COVID-19 spreads You can reduce the risk of spreading COVID-19 by improving ventilation. If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days. You must stay home and avoid contact with people in your household. Keep the air in your room fresh. If you can, open windows on different sides of the room to help airflow. To stop virus particles spreading, reduce airflow from your room to other parts of your home: Block gaps under your door with a towel or draught stopper. Before opening the door into shared spaces, open your window for at least 5 minutes to freshen the air. Close the window before you open the door. In a shared bathroom, switch on the extractor fan or open a window. Close the toilet lid before you flush. We encourage you to let in fresh air every day, including after someone visits your home. If you can, partly open a window about 5cm for most of the day. Or open windows for at least 15 minutes as often as possible, whenever it is practical to do so. Try 1 or more of these ways to remove stale air: Open windows or doors on opposite sides of a room to help airflow. Open doors between rooms to ventilate hallways and spaces without windows. In kitchens and bathrooms, switch on the extractor fan or open a window. Open higher windows wider than lower windows. This helps reduce draughts. If your windows do not open, check if your ventilation system filters (cleans) the air. Steamed-up windows can be a sign of low ventilation. Try 1 or more of these ways to refresh air without letting rooms get chilly or damp: Partly open a window for most of the day, for example, a 5cm opening. Fully open a window or door for 3 to 5 minutes every hour. Open a window whenever you leave the room, closing the door behind you. You do not have to leave windows or doors open all the time. Heat pumps, air conditioners and ceiling fans do not refresh the air. Instead, they move around air already in a room. You will need to open doors or windows to remove stale air and let in fresh air. If you have a home ventilation system, check if it recycles air or filters air: If it recycles air, you need to open windows or doors to move stale air out and let in fresh air. If it filters or cleans air, this helps remove stale air and reduce the risk of virus particles spreading. Landlords must provide good ventilation. If you live in or own a rental property, check ventilation rules on the Tenancy Services website. Ventilation standard | Tenancy Services (external link) Virus particles can build up quickly in crowded places such as buses or trains. It helps to sit or stand close to the door as airflow will be better. Open a window on the bus or train if you can. Taxis and ride-share services often ask passengers to open windows. We encourage you to wear a face mask in crowded places such as public transport. Wearing a face mask --- Section Separator --- When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. COVID-19 mostly spreads by aerosols — small virus particles that can stay in the air for minutes to hours. Good ventilation helps remove virus particles in the air. How COVID-19 spreads You can reduce the risk of spreading COVID-19 by improving ventilation. --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days. You must stay home and avoid contact with people in your household. Keep the air in your room fresh. If you can, open windows on different sides of the room to help airflow. To stop virus particles spreading, reduce airflow from your room to other parts of your home: Block gaps under your door with a towel or draught stopper. Before opening the door into shared spaces, open your window for at least 5 minutes to freshen the air. Close the window before you open the door. In a shared bathroom, switch on the extractor fan or open a window. Close the toilet lid before you flush. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to let in fresh air every day, including after someone visits your home. If you can, partly open a window about 5cm for most of the day. Or open windows for at least 15 minutes as often as possible, whenever it is practical to do so. Try 1 or more of these ways to remove stale air: Open windows or doors on opposite sides of a room to help airflow. Open doors between rooms to ventilate hallways and spaces without windows. In kitchens and bathrooms, switch on the extractor fan or open a window. Open higher windows wider than lower windows. This helps reduce draughts. If your windows do not open, check if your ventilation system filters (cleans) the air. Steamed-up windows can be a sign of low ventilation. Try 1 or more of these ways to refresh air without letting rooms get chilly or damp: Partly open a window for most of the day, for example, a 5cm opening. Fully open a window or door for 3 to 5 minutes every hour. Open a window whenever you leave the room, closing the door behind you. You do not have to leave windows or doors open all the time. Heat pumps, air conditioners and ceiling fans do not refresh the air. Instead, they move around air already in a room. You will need to open doors or windows to remove stale air and let in fresh air. If you have a home ventilation system, check if it recycles air or filters air: If it recycles air, you need to open windows or doors to move stale air out and let in fresh air. If it filters or cleans air, this helps remove stale air and reduce the risk of virus particles spreading. Landlords must provide good ventilation. If you live in or own a rental property, check ventilation rules on the Tenancy Services website. Ventilation standard | Tenancy Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Virus particles can build up quickly in crowded places such as buses or trains. It helps to sit or stand close to the door as airflow will be better. Open a window on the bus or train if you can. Taxis and ride-share services often ask passengers to open windows. We encourage you to wear a face mask in crowded places such as public transport. Wearing a face mask --- Section Separator --- Face masks Keep track of where you have been Ventilation and COVID-19
Home Prepare and stay safe When to call for help --- Section Separator --- If there is an emergency, and there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. If it is not an emergency, but you need advice about your symptoms or general health advice about COVID-19, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Heathline is available 24 hours a day. Most people who get COVID-19 should be able to manage their symptoms safely at home. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. Call 111 immediately if you or someone in your household: has trouble breathing, or is experiencing shortness of breath has severe chest pain feels faint or dizzy or becomes unconscious. Tell them you or someone in your household has COVID-19 when you call, so the paramedics can care for you safely. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. If you need medical advice about your symptoms, or other health advice while you and your household are isolating, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Healthline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face mask. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. Include face masks and other supplies, for example hand sanitiser, in your emergency grab bag. Move to a safe location and stay there until you get more advice. Immediate safety​ overrides COVID-19 isolation requirements. As soon as you and your whānau are safe, try to maintain physical distancing wherever possible. Keep a record of where you have been and who you have been with while you have been moving to safety. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If there is an emergency, and there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. If it is not an emergency, but you need advice about your symptoms or general health advice about COVID-19, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Heathline is available 24 hours a day. --- Section Separator --- Most people who get COVID-19 should be able to manage their symptoms safely at home. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. Call 111 immediately if you or someone in your household: has trouble breathing, or is experiencing shortness of breath has severe chest pain feels faint or dizzy or becomes unconscious. Tell them you or someone in your household has COVID-19 when you call, so the paramedics can care for you safely. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. If you need medical advice about your symptoms, or other health advice while you and your household are isolating, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Healthline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face mask. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. --- Section Separator --- If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. Include face masks and other supplies, for example hand sanitiser, in your emergency grab bag. Move to a safe location and stay there until you get more advice. Immediate safety​ overrides COVID-19 isolation requirements. As soon as you and your whānau are safe, try to maintain physical distancing wherever possible. Keep a record of where you have been and who you have been with while you have been moving to safety. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Protect yourself and others Looking after your mental wellbeing COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help Have a safe-as summer
Home Testing and isolation Testing for COVID-19 and isolating when you test positive are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. What you need to know How to use a RAT When to test for COVID-19 Household Contacts If you have COVID-19 Report your RAT Create your isolation timeline Antivirals Looking after your mental wellbeing If you get COVID-19 while travelling Long COVID --- Section Separator --- Find detailed advice about managing your symptoms and what to do while you are self-isolating on the Ministry of Health's COVID-19 Health Hub. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. If you have been in contact with someone with COVID-19 you may be a Household Contact or a Close Contact. Find out what you need to do. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. What you can do when self-isolating, including reasons you are permitted to leave self-isolation. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and left isolation, there are a few things you should do and be mindful of in your recovery. --- Section Separator --- Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. If you have been in contact with someone with COVID-19 you may be a Household Contact or a Close Contact. Find out what you need to do. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. What you can do when self-isolating, including reasons you are permitted to leave self-isolation. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and left isolation, there are a few things you should do and be mindful of in your recovery.
Home Testing and isolation Contact tracing How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have been exposed to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have any underlying health conditions you may have details of your Household Contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited any welfare needs you may have. How to use the contact tracing form If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. You will get instructions on how to do this when you complete the form. If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 11 77 88 . If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your approximate arrival and departure time. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have been exposed to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have any underlying health conditions you may have details of your Household Contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited any welfare needs you may have. How to use the contact tracing form If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. You will get instructions on how to do this when you complete the form. If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 11 77 88 . --- Section Separator --- If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your approximate arrival and departure time. --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts How to use the contact tracing form
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 If you have COVID-19 you need to self-isolate for 7 days. Find out what else you need to do. --- Section Separator --- Find detailed advice about managing your symptoms and what to do while you are self-isolating on the Ministry of Health's COVID-19 Health Hub. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have taken a rapid antigen test (RAT), report your positive result online or by calling the helpline. Online: My Covid Record (external link) Call: 0800 222 478 (choose option 3) How to report your RAT result The Ministry of Health will then send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers to confirm your positive result. This has information about self-isolation, support options, and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you had a PCR test, you will get a text message with your result. If your employer asks to see proof that you must isolate, you can use this text message. You do not need a medical certificate from a doctor. --- Section Separator --- You must self-isolate for 7 days while you recover. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Create your household isolation and testing timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Your Household Contacts do not need to isolate. They should test daily for 5 days. If they test positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. Advice for your Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- You must stay at home and avoid contact with other people in your household. Find out what to do when self-isolating, including permitted reasons to leave self-isolation, and how to ventilate your home. How to self-isolate Ventilation and COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Complete the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing form using your 6-digit access code. (You can find this code in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers .) For most people, the form will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and do not complete the form within 12 hours, you will get a phone call. How to use the contact tracing form You also need to tell your close contacts you have COVID-19. This includes the people you live with, and your workplace or school. Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19 — especially if they are fully vaccinated and boosted — are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to recover at home. Symptoms for COVID-19 tend to show 2 to 5 days after a person has been infected but can take up to 14 days. Omicron causes similar symptoms to other variants. Advice on managing your COVID-19 symptoms | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) If you need advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If your symptoms get worse or you need urgent medical care, call your local healthcare provider or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 If you or the person you are caring for develops difficulty breathing, severe chest pain, fainting or becomes unconscious, call 111 immediately. Medicines to treat COVID-19 are available for people who are at risk of developing serious illness and for some people who have tested positive for COVID-19. Medicines to treat COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You can end your self-isolation 7 days after your symptoms started or you tested positive, whichever came first. You do not need to wait for an official message to leave self-isolation. You may receive a text message confirming your self-isolation period has ended. You do not need a negative RAT result to return to work or school. Some people can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can coordinate extra support for you if you need it. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. It can be hard supporting your tamariki (children) when they need to isolate with COVID-19. The COVID-19 Health Hub has advice on how to make things easier for children and parents. If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand, you will need to isolate for 7 days. Follow the isolation advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can coordinate extra support for you if you need it. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. It can be hard supporting your tamariki (children) when they need to isolate with COVID-19. The COVID-19 Health Hub has advice on how to make things easier for children and parents. If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand, you will need to isolate for 7 days. Follow the isolation advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub.
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- For most people reinfection with COVID-19 is not likely to be more severe than previous infections. But you can experience different symptoms. Every time you get COVID-19, it increases your risk of getting long COVID and other medical issues. If you do get COVID-19 again you will have access to the same advice, help and support you would receive for a new COVID-19 infection. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection: there is no need to take a RAT you should stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you have an underlying health condition or your symptoms are getting worse, you should get advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. Get a COVID-19 test If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. If you have COVID-19 If your test is negative: your symptoms could be another illness, such as a cold or flu and your symptoms continue, you should repeat a RAT 48 hours later if your result is still negative, stay home until at least 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. If you have had COVID-19 within the last 28 days, and someone in your household tests positive, you are not considered to be a Household Contact and you do not need to test. If it has been 29 days or longer since your COVID-19 infection and someone in your household tests positive, then you should test daily for 5 days. Household Contacts Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. Long COVID Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. You should wait 3 months after testing positive before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. Get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- For most people reinfection with COVID-19 is not likely to be more severe than previous infections. But you can experience different symptoms. Every time you get COVID-19, it increases your risk of getting long COVID and other medical issues. If you do get COVID-19 again you will have access to the same advice, help and support you would receive for a new COVID-19 infection. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since your previous infection: there is no need to take a RAT you should stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. If you have an underlying health condition or your symptoms are getting worse, you should get advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. Get a COVID-19 test If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. If you have COVID-19 If your test is negative: your symptoms could be another illness, such as a cold or flu and your symptoms continue, you should repeat a RAT 48 hours later if your result is still negative, stay home until at least 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. --- Section Separator --- If you have had COVID-19 within the last 28 days, and someone in your household tests positive, you are not considered to be a Household Contact and you do not need to test. If it has been 29 days or longer since your COVID-19 infection and someone in your household tests positive, then you should test daily for 5 days. Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. Long COVID --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. You should wait 3 months after testing positive before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. Get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Medicines to treat COVID-19 How to self-isolate Help when you are self-isolating If you get COVID-19 while travelling After you have had COVID-19 Long COVID
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 Help when you are self-isolating --- Section Separator --- Most people will be able to manage self-isolation with help from whānau and friends, but there is help available for you and your household if you need it. You may be able to get: money to pay for urgent and essential costs, like food, medicine and some bills support from community groups, iwi and Pacific groups in your area, or supplies delivered to you. Anyone can request help — you do not need to be getting a benefit. Work and Income have an online form where you can request support from a community organisation for your household, or to apply for money for urgent costs. Request help from Work and Income (external link) If you prefer, you can call Work and Income's COVID-19 Welfare line for free on 0800 512 337 . It is open 8am to 5pm Monday to Friday and 8am to 1pm on a Saturday. If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. Keep in touch with your friends and whānau , your healthcare provider, and any community groups you are in contact with. They can: check how you are feeling monitor your health check if you need basic supplies like food or medicines. It is important you answer your phone while you are self-isolating. There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. If your income has been affected Money to help with urgent costs | Work and Income (external link) If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. Find helplines to get support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support --- Section Separator --- Most people will be able to manage self-isolation with help from whānau and friends, but there is help available for you and your household if you need it. You may be able to get: money to pay for urgent and essential costs, like food, medicine and some bills support from community groups, iwi and Pacific groups in your area, or supplies delivered to you. Anyone can request help — you do not need to be getting a benefit. Work and Income have an online form where you can request support from a community organisation for your household, or to apply for money for urgent costs. Request help from Work and Income (external link) If you prefer, you can call Work and Income's COVID-19 Welfare line for free on 0800 512 337 . It is open 8am to 5pm Monday to Friday and 8am to 1pm on a Saturday. If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- Keep in touch with your friends and whānau , your healthcare provider, and any community groups you are in contact with. They can: check how you are feeling monitor your health check if you need basic supplies like food or medicines. It is important you answer your phone while you are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. If your income has been affected Money to help with urgent costs | Work and Income (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. Find helplines to get support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support --- Section Separator --- Medicines to treat COVID-19 How to self-isolate Help when you are self-isolating If you get COVID-19 while travelling After you have had COVID-19 Long COVID
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Use the COVID-19 Health Hub to work out your isolation timeline: Create your isolation timeline (external link) Stay at home — do not go to work, school or any public places. Avoid contact with people in your household. For example, sleep by yourself if you can, and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face mask that covers your nose and mouth when near others. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood. Do not visit any shared exercise facility, such as a swimming pool. You can get deliveries, such as food and medicine from whānau and friends or by ordering supplies online. Identify a safe drop-off point outside the house to leave supplies. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes things you touch often, like door handles, light switches and phones. Do your own laundry. Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. Ventilation and COVID-19 You can download and print posters for your home to tell people you are self-isolating: We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 88 KB] Do not leave the house for any reason, unless it is a permitted reason — such as urgent medical care or exercising. If you cannot work from home during this time, your employer (or you, if you are self-employed) may be able to apply for leave support. Do not prepare food for others. Do not share items with people in your household. For example, dishes, toothbrushes and towels. Do not have visitors. This includes tradespeople, unless it is an emergency. If you have a support carer, they can continue to provide essential care. If you are unwell and have symptoms, do not do strenuous, high-impact exercise. Stick to gentle, familiar exercise. Do not get a COVID-19 vaccination until you have recovered. You are allowed to leave the place you are self-isolating for the following reasons. You must always wear a mask. Do not use public transport, taxis or rideshare vehicles. You can: have any medical examination and testing required access essential health services for treatment that cannot wait until you finish self-isolation attend any court, tribunal, New Zealand Parole Board hearing or other judicial institution you are required to attend move to another place of self-isolation to protect your own or another person’s life, health, or safety visit a dying relative who is not expected to live beyond your self-isolation visit the body of a relative before a funeral or tangihanga , if you will not be able to visit the body after your self-isolation. You are allowed to exercise outside your home while self-isolating. You can exercise in your neighbourhood, but not using any shared facility, such as a swimming pool or gym. You cannot exercise with other people, unless they are part of your household. Be mindful to: keep your distance from others stick to gentle, familiar exercise — do not do anything risky where you may need rescuing carry a face mask — you do not need to wear a face mask, but you may feel more comfortable doing so. --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Use the COVID-19 Health Hub to work out your isolation timeline: Create your isolation timeline (external link) Stay at home — do not go to work, school or any public places. Avoid contact with people in your household. For example, sleep by yourself if you can, and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face mask that covers your nose and mouth when near others. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood. Do not visit any shared exercise facility, such as a swimming pool. You can get deliveries, such as food and medicine from whānau and friends or by ordering supplies online. Identify a safe drop-off point outside the house to leave supplies. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes things you touch often, like door handles, light switches and phones. Do your own laundry. Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. Ventilation and COVID-19 You can download and print posters for your home to tell people you are self-isolating: We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 88 KB] --- Section Separator --- Do not leave the house for any reason, unless it is a permitted reason — such as urgent medical care or exercising. If you cannot work from home during this time, your employer (or you, if you are self-employed) may be able to apply for leave support. Do not prepare food for others. Do not share items with people in your household. For example, dishes, toothbrushes and towels. Do not have visitors. This includes tradespeople, unless it is an emergency. If you have a support carer, they can continue to provide essential care. If you are unwell and have symptoms, do not do strenuous, high-impact exercise. Stick to gentle, familiar exercise. Do not get a COVID-19 vaccination until you have recovered. --- Section Separator --- You are allowed to leave the place you are self-isolating for the following reasons. You must always wear a mask. Do not use public transport, taxis or rideshare vehicles. You can: have any medical examination and testing required access essential health services for treatment that cannot wait until you finish self-isolation attend any court, tribunal, New Zealand Parole Board hearing or other judicial institution you are required to attend move to another place of self-isolation to protect your own or another person’s life, health, or safety visit a dying relative who is not expected to live beyond your self-isolation visit the body of a relative before a funeral or tangihanga , if you will not be able to visit the body after your self-isolation. You are allowed to exercise outside your home while self-isolating. You can exercise in your neighbourhood, but not using any shared facility, such as a swimming pool or gym. You cannot exercise with other people, unless they are part of your household. Be mindful to: keep your distance from others stick to gentle, familiar exercise — do not do anything risky where you may need rescuing carry a face mask — you do not need to wear a face mask, but you may feel more comfortable doing so. --- Section Separator --- Medicines to treat COVID-19 How to self-isolate Help when you are self-isolating If you get COVID-19 while travelling After you have had COVID-19 Long COVID
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 If you get COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- This page is for people who live in New Zealand and are travelling domestically. If you test positive while visiting New Zealand | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) You could get COVID-19 while you are away from home on holiday or for work. Have a plan for what you need to do. Take a COVID-19 kit with you that includes rapid antigen tests (RATs), hand sanitiser, face masks, and your usual medications. Plan how to get home safely to isolate — you can only return home if you or someone you are travelling with can drive there. Talk through the plan with the people you are travelling with. If you cannot drive home, it is likely you will need to stay where you are for your isolation period. If you get cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while away from home, get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home. Order a rapid antigen test (RAT) online and pick up from your nearest collection point. Order online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Find a COVID-19 collection point | Healthpoint (external link) COVID-19 symptoms If you test positive for COVID-19 If you test positive, you cannot: take a commercial flight home do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. If you are away for work, accommodation can be arranged by you or your employer. You do not need to seek permission to do this. Getting help if you are self-isolating Check the COVID-19 Health Hub for advice. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Plan: who can look after your house if necessary who can care for your pets what things to take with you to help with boredom while isolating to have enough money to cover an extended time away from home, for example accommodation costs a list of medical information — include names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions, and medication or medical supplies each person with you needs. You will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines. How to self-isolate If you or the people you are travelling with can drive home in a private or work vehicle, then you can do so. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you need to plan: your way home how you would get fuel — you should only stop at a contactless petrol station supplies for the journey home to reduce the number of stops you make. You must not use public transport or do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. Remember to keep up healthy habits If you are borrowing or renting a car, tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle afterwards. Once you are home, follow the self-isolation guidance. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- This page is for people who live in New Zealand and are travelling domestically. If you test positive while visiting New Zealand | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- You could get COVID-19 while you are away from home on holiday or for work. Have a plan for what you need to do. Take a COVID-19 kit with you that includes rapid antigen tests (RATs), hand sanitiser, face masks, and your usual medications. Plan how to get home safely to isolate — you can only return home if you or someone you are travelling with can drive there. Talk through the plan with the people you are travelling with. If you cannot drive home, it is likely you will need to stay where you are for your isolation period. If you get cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while away from home, get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home. Order a rapid antigen test (RAT) online and pick up from your nearest collection point. Order online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Find a COVID-19 collection point | Healthpoint (external link) COVID-19 symptoms If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you test positive, you cannot: take a commercial flight home do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. If you are away for work, accommodation can be arranged by you or your employer. You do not need to seek permission to do this. Getting help if you are self-isolating Check the COVID-19 Health Hub for advice. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Plan: who can look after your house if necessary who can care for your pets what things to take with you to help with boredom while isolating to have enough money to cover an extended time away from home, for example accommodation costs a list of medical information — include names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions, and medication or medical supplies each person with you needs. You will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you or the people you are travelling with can drive home in a private or work vehicle, then you can do so. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you need to plan: your way home how you would get fuel — you should only stop at a contactless petrol station supplies for the journey home to reduce the number of stops you make. You must not use public transport or do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. Remember to keep up healthy habits If you are borrowing or renting a car, tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle afterwards. Once you are home, follow the self-isolation guidance. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- Medicines to treat COVID-19 How to self-isolate Help when you are self-isolating If you get COVID-19 while travelling After you have had COVID-19 Long COVID
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 Long COVID --- Section Separator --- You should expect to recover from the first signs and symptoms of COVID-19 within 2 to 4 weeks. You should be back to all activities you were doing before COVID-19 within 12 weeks. Yet, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard 12-week period. Long COVID is a general term used to describe symptoms that continue or develop beyond the standard time of recovery. In New Zealand, we divide long COVID into 2 groups: Ongoing symptomatic COVID-19 — you can experience signs and symptoms of COVID-19 for 4 to 12 weeks after your initial infection. Post-COVID-19 syndrome — when you have signs and symptoms that develop during or after an infection. These continue for more than 12 weeks and are not explained by any other conditions. Long COVID can affect any system of the body, and the severity of symptoms may fluctuate over time. The type of symptoms someone experiences may also vary over time. Symptoms often improve over time. Anyone can develop long COVID, but it is more common if you had severe symptoms when you first got sick. A second COVID-19 infection could trigger long COVID. You are at more risk of getting long COVID if you: are aged 50 years and over have more than 1 underlying chronic medical condition are obese are female had many symptoms in your initial infection were admitted to hospital with acute COVID-19. Long COVID is less common in children and adolescents. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. Some of the more commonly reported symptoms are below. General symptoms include: fatigue fever abdominal pain joint pain muscle pain nausea and vomiting diarrhoea weight loss reduced appetite sleep issues. Cardiovascular symptoms include: chest tightness chest pain skipped, extra or irregular heartbeats (palpitations). Respiratory symptoms include: breathlessness cough. Neurological symptoms include: loss of concentration or memory issues (cognitive impairment, 'brain fog') headache sleep disturbance pins and needles and numbness dizziness delirium (in older people) lack of strength in arms or legs (mobility impairment) visual disturbance. Ear, nose and throat symptoms include: tinnitus earache sore throat dizziness loss of taste or smell blocked nose (nasal congestion). The best way to prevent long COVID is to prevent infection with COVID-19. Vaccines reduce the risk of long COVID by lowering the chances of getting COVID-19. There is also evidence that vaccination reduces the risk of people who get COVID-19 going on to develop long COVID. Vaccination against COVID-19 is available to all New Zealand adults and children 5 years and over. COVID-19 vaccines To protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Along with staying up to date with your vaccinations, it is a good idea to: stay home if you are sick limit time in crowded indoor spaces wear a face mask in indoor public places physically distance when indoors improve ventilation cough or sneeze into your elbow wash or sanitise your hands. Protect yourself and others Researchers and healthcare providers are still working out the best ways to manage long COVID. There are currently no specific treatments. Your healthcare provider can help you manage the symptoms that affect you the most. Talk to them if you get any new symptoms or your symptoms get worse. Your health provider can connect you to support services including: nutrition and diet advice occupational therapy physiotherapy speech and language therapy clinical exercise physiologists mental health and wellbeing support. It is important not to rush your recovery. Make sure you get enough rest, pace yourself and plan what you are going to do. You can call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline for advice, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week for free on 0800 358 5453 . Long COVID | Health Navigator (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing Managing long COVID | Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand (external link) Recovering from COVID-19, including long COVID | KidsHealth (external link) Post COVID-19 condition | World Health Organization (external link) I think I have long COVID | Your COVID Recovery — NHS (external link) Children and young people living with Long Covid | Long COVID Kids (external link) Resources | Long COVID Physio (external link) --- Section Separator --- You should expect to recover from the first signs and symptoms of COVID-19 within 2 to 4 weeks. You should be back to all activities you were doing before COVID-19 within 12 weeks. Yet, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard 12-week period. Long COVID is a general term used to describe symptoms that continue or develop beyond the standard time of recovery. In New Zealand, we divide long COVID into 2 groups: Ongoing symptomatic COVID-19 — you can experience signs and symptoms of COVID-19 for 4 to 12 weeks after your initial infection. Post-COVID-19 syndrome — when you have signs and symptoms that develop during or after an infection. These continue for more than 12 weeks and are not explained by any other conditions. Long COVID can affect any system of the body, and the severity of symptoms may fluctuate over time. The type of symptoms someone experiences may also vary over time. Symptoms often improve over time. --- Section Separator --- Anyone can develop long COVID, but it is more common if you had severe symptoms when you first got sick. A second COVID-19 infection could trigger long COVID. You are at more risk of getting long COVID if you: are aged 50 years and over have more than 1 underlying chronic medical condition are obese are female had many symptoms in your initial infection were admitted to hospital with acute COVID-19. Long COVID is less common in children and adolescents. --- Section Separator --- Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. Some of the more commonly reported symptoms are below. General symptoms include: fatigue fever abdominal pain joint pain muscle pain nausea and vomiting diarrhoea weight loss reduced appetite sleep issues. Cardiovascular symptoms include: chest tightness chest pain skipped, extra or irregular heartbeats (palpitations). Respiratory symptoms include: breathlessness cough. Neurological symptoms include: loss of concentration or memory issues (cognitive impairment, 'brain fog') headache sleep disturbance pins and needles and numbness dizziness delirium (in older people) lack of strength in arms or legs (mobility impairment) visual disturbance. Ear, nose and throat symptoms include: tinnitus earache sore throat dizziness loss of taste or smell blocked nose (nasal congestion). --- Section Separator --- The best way to prevent long COVID is to prevent infection with COVID-19. Vaccines reduce the risk of long COVID by lowering the chances of getting COVID-19. There is also evidence that vaccination reduces the risk of people who get COVID-19 going on to develop long COVID. Vaccination against COVID-19 is available to all New Zealand adults and children 5 years and over. COVID-19 vaccines To protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Along with staying up to date with your vaccinations, it is a good idea to: stay home if you are sick limit time in crowded indoor spaces wear a face mask in indoor public places physically distance when indoors improve ventilation cough or sneeze into your elbow wash or sanitise your hands. Protect yourself and others --- Section Separator --- Researchers and healthcare providers are still working out the best ways to manage long COVID. There are currently no specific treatments. Your healthcare provider can help you manage the symptoms that affect you the most. Talk to them if you get any new symptoms or your symptoms get worse. Your health provider can connect you to support services including: nutrition and diet advice occupational therapy physiotherapy speech and language therapy clinical exercise physiologists mental health and wellbeing support. It is important not to rush your recovery. Make sure you get enough rest, pace yourself and plan what you are going to do. --- Section Separator --- You can call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline for advice, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week for free on 0800 358 5453 . Long COVID | Health Navigator (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing Managing long COVID | Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand (external link) Recovering from COVID-19, including long COVID | KidsHealth (external link) Post COVID-19 condition | World Health Organization (external link) I think I have long COVID | Your COVID Recovery — NHS (external link) Children and young people living with Long Covid | Long COVID Kids (external link) Resources | Long COVID Physio (external link) --- Section Separator --- Medicines to treat COVID-19 How to self-isolate Help when you are self-isolating If you get COVID-19 while travelling After you have had COVID-19 Long COVID
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 Medicines to treat COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- People with a high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are eligible for treatment with COVID-19 antiviral medicines. These medicines reduce the amount of virus in your body, so you do not get as sick and you are less likely to go to hospital. You can get free antiviral medicines if you: have COVID-19 and symptoms or you are a Household Contact and have symptoms, and became sick within the last 5 days, and are eligible for the medicine. Eligible people include: Māori or Pacific people aged 50 or over everyone aged 65 or over anyone aged 50 or over with fewer than 2 COVID-19 vaccinations anyone with a severely weakened immune system anyone with Down syndrome anyone with sickle cell disease anyone who has previously been in critical high dependency hospital care from COVID-19 anyone with 3 or more high-risk medical conditions. COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat eligible people with COVID-19 at home. You must start taking COVID-19 medicines within the first 5 days of getting symptoms. When taken early in your COVID-19 illness, antivirals can help you stay out of hospital. These medicines are free for eligible people within 5 days of their symptoms starting. Talk to your doctor or nurse by phone to see if getting a prescription is right for you. They will help you work out if you are eligible for COVID-19 medicine. It will depend on several factors, including your age, ethnicity, other health conditions and vaccination status. Many pharmacists will be able to supply COVID-19 antivirals without a prescription if you test positive or are a Household Contact. The pharmacist will check your eligibility. Talk to your pharmacist or a registered nurse either immediately after you test positive or develop symptoms to see if the medicines are right for you. If you are at risk of becoming very unwell with COVID-19 you may be able to get a prescription before you get COVID-19. This means the pharmacist will have the prescription ready to use if you become unwell. If you test positive, you can then arrange to have the medicine delivered by your friends, whānau or the pharmacy. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will confirm that it is still safe for you to take COVID-19 medicines. You will not be able to get the medicine until you test positive for COVID-19. Talk to your doctor or nurse to see if getting a prescription before you get unwell is right for you. Pharmacies supplying antivirals can be found on Healthpoint. You will need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) You will not need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you do not need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days and cannot leave your home. If you are eligible for medicines, arrange to have them delivered by friends, whānau or by other means. Some pharmacies can deliver the medicine. How to self-isolate Some other medicines are available to treat COVID-19 but are only given in hospital. Pharmac, the agency which decides what medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand, has more information on its website. New Zealand’s COVID-19 treatments portfolio | Pharmac (external link) If you are severely immunocompromised you may be eligible for Evusheld. Evusheld is a preventative medicine and can help reduce severe illness and hospitalisation from COVID-19. It is available for severely immunocompromised people 12 years old and over. You can get the 2 injections of Evusheld before you get COVID-19, or at least 2 weeks after your recovery. Talk to your doctor or health professional about whether this medicine is right for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 Eligibility criteria for Evusheld | Pharmac (external link) New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Translations --- Section Separator --- People with a high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are eligible for treatment with COVID-19 antiviral medicines. These medicines reduce the amount of virus in your body, so you do not get as sick and you are less likely to go to hospital. You can get free antiviral medicines if you: have COVID-19 and symptoms or you are a Household Contact and have symptoms, and became sick within the last 5 days, and are eligible for the medicine. Eligible people include: Māori or Pacific people aged 50 or over everyone aged 65 or over anyone aged 50 or over with fewer than 2 COVID-19 vaccinations anyone with a severely weakened immune system anyone with Down syndrome anyone with sickle cell disease anyone who has previously been in critical high dependency hospital care from COVID-19 anyone with 3 or more high-risk medical conditions. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat eligible people with COVID-19 at home. You must start taking COVID-19 medicines within the first 5 days of getting symptoms. When taken early in your COVID-19 illness, antivirals can help you stay out of hospital. These medicines are free for eligible people within 5 days of their symptoms starting. --- Section Separator --- Talk to your doctor or nurse by phone to see if getting a prescription is right for you. They will help you work out if you are eligible for COVID-19 medicine. It will depend on several factors, including your age, ethnicity, other health conditions and vaccination status. Many pharmacists will be able to supply COVID-19 antivirals without a prescription if you test positive or are a Household Contact. The pharmacist will check your eligibility. Talk to your pharmacist or a registered nurse either immediately after you test positive or develop symptoms to see if the medicines are right for you. If you are at risk of becoming very unwell with COVID-19 you may be able to get a prescription before you get COVID-19. This means the pharmacist will have the prescription ready to use if you become unwell. If you test positive, you can then arrange to have the medicine delivered by your friends, whānau or the pharmacy. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will confirm that it is still safe for you to take COVID-19 medicines. You will not be able to get the medicine until you test positive for COVID-19. Talk to your doctor or nurse to see if getting a prescription before you get unwell is right for you. Pharmacies supplying antivirals can be found on Healthpoint. You will need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) You will not need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you do not need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days and cannot leave your home. If you are eligible for medicines, arrange to have them delivered by friends, whānau or by other means. Some pharmacies can deliver the medicine. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- Some other medicines are available to treat COVID-19 but are only given in hospital. Pharmac, the agency which decides what medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand, has more information on its website. New Zealand’s COVID-19 treatments portfolio | Pharmac (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are severely immunocompromised you may be eligible for Evusheld. Evusheld is a preventative medicine and can help reduce severe illness and hospitalisation from COVID-19. It is available for severely immunocompromised people 12 years old and over. You can get the 2 injections of Evusheld before you get COVID-19, or at least 2 weeks after your recovery. Talk to your doctor or health professional about whether this medicine is right for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 Eligibility criteria for Evusheld | Pharmac (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Translations --- Section Separator --- Medicines to treat COVID-19 How to self-isolate Help when you are self-isolating If you get COVID-19 while travelling After you have had COVID-19 Long COVID
