We are encouraging everyone who is eligible to get their booster in February. What you need to know Locations of interest Latest case numbers When New Zealand's borders open Close contacts How to self-isolate Life at Red Face masks Advice for businesses at Red Posters for your business --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern provides an update on our response to COVID-19. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. All DHBs have completed a key part of preparations for Omicron with the roll out of boosters to staff and residents in all aged residential care facilities. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
From 11:59pm on 15 February, the Government is introducing new measures to protect our health services and communities. Red traffic light settings remain in place. What you need to know Locations of interest Latest case numbers When New Zealand's borders open Close contacts How to self-isolate Life at Red Face masks Advice for businesses at Red Posters for your business --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Due to increasing COVID-19 cases, Tonga does not currently meet criteria to be eligible for quarantine-free travel (QFT) into Aotearoa New Zealand. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern provides an update on our response to COVID-19. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
From 11:59pm on 15 February, the Government is introducing new measures to protect our health services and communities. Red traffic light settings remain in place. What you need to know Locations of interest Latest case numbers When New Zealand's borders open Close contacts How to self-isolate Life at Red Face masks Advice for businesses at Red Posters for your business --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern provides an update on our response to COVID-19. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. All DHBs have completed a key part of preparations for Omicron with the roll out of boosters to staff and residents in all aged residential care facilities. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Unite against COVID-19 was set up to help New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- To ensure our ongoing response to COVID-19 is informed by the best available expert advice, the Minister for the COVID-19 Response has established 2 Independent Advisory Groups. Find legislation and key documents about New Zealand's COVID-19 response. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. These documents are made available to the public in keeping with the Official Information Act. A timeline of Alert Level changes, dates of key events and the duration of the State of National Emergency. Unite against COVID-19 was set up to help New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home About our COVID-19 response About Unite against COVID-19 Unite against COVID-19 has evolved to support the next stage of Aotearoa's journey and response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Unite against COVID-19 was set up to help New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic. It is evolving to support the next stage of Aotearoa's journey — based on the concept of “He waka eke noa — we are all in this together”. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 was a storm that had been raging across the world and eventually made its way to Aotearoa. This pūrorohū threatened our lifestyle, businesses and our very lives. We knew the only way we could survive was to shelter and wait for it to pass. So, we dropped anchor and took shelter, and focused on keeping people safe. Each time it threatened us we would do this and wait for it to pass. But, over time it has become apparent to us all that our weather has changed and this storm is now part of our new reality. --- Section Separator --- Our strength has always been in our sail. Our raranga is made strong by the threads working together. Over the past year we have added new threads to our raranga that have further strengthened our sail, so that we can now continue our journey. We can seek out new horizons with the confidence of knowing that if we hit some bad weather again, our navigation skills and the strength of our sail will carry us through to calmer waters. Working collaboratively with Māori designers and communication experts, our new sail motif reflects the journey we are on and is now woven through our designs and advertising. From this, a distinctive Aotearoa feel flows through our elements. --- Section Separator --- Our colour palette is influenced by the colours of the kererū. The taonga pūoro you now hear woven into the sting at the start of our audio advertisements represent the contemporary sounds of Aotearoa. These are New Zealand’s sounds and voices. Taonga pūoro are considered an important medicine in healing. They are used as rongoā (medicine) for both mental health and physical ailments. Our taonga pūoro is recorded by musician Reti Hedley, Ngā Puhi, Ngāti Tūwharetoa. --- Section Separator --- Our yellow stripes and Alert Level campaign helped us shelter from the stormy weather, while reassuring New Zealanders we could get through together. Aotearoa is still navigating its journey with COVID-19, but, together we can continue to trust in the strength of our sail.
Home About our COVID-19 response History of the COVID-19 Alert System --- Section Separator --- The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of control measures in New Zealand and overseas, or the application of Alert Levels at different times, for example, the application may be different depending on if NZ is moving down or up Alert Levels). Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 move to Step 1 of Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 3. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 Step 1 move to Alert Level 3 Step 2 from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 Step 2 at 11:59pm. Upper Northland remains at Alert Level 3. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 1. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Parts of Waikato move to Alert Level 2. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All of New Zealand moved to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights, at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021. A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of control measures in New Zealand and overseas, or the application of Alert Levels at different times, for example, the application may be different depending on if NZ is moving down or up Alert Levels). Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. --- Section Separator --- The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. --- Section Separator --- The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. --- Section Separator --- At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 move to Step 1 of Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 3. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 Step 1 move to Alert Level 3 Step 2 from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 Step 2 at 11:59pm. Upper Northland remains at Alert Level 3. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 1. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Parts of Waikato move to Alert Level 2. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand moved to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights, at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021. --- Section Separator --- A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases History of the COVID-19 Alert System About Unite against COVID-19
Home About our COVID-19 response Legislation and key documents --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 102 KB] – updated 27 October 2021 Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 225 KB] – updated 27 October 2021 Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 102 KB] – updated 27 October 2021 Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 225 KB] – updated 27 October 2021 Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases History of the COVID-19 Alert System About Unite against COVID-19
Home About this site Contact us Find contact information for the COVID-19 group at the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. I am looking for... Communication and language support COVID-19 support Financial support Report a breach Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- You can find guidance and submit an Official Information Request to the COVID-19 Group on the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet website: How to make an Official Information Act request Find information and advice translated into different languages: Translations Find information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs: Alternate formats Immigration New Zealand can answer questions about travel eligibility and visa categories. Contact Immigration NZ | immigration.govt.nz Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz If you run or own a business, you can find information on the business.govt website: COVID-19: Information for businesses COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) Contact us | business.govt.nz We have a selection of posters available for in the traffic light settings available on this website. You can also get your QR code poster. Download posters Get your QR code poster All our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, can be viewed and download through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email: covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz You will need to contact the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. You can send a query through an online form on the Employment website or call them. Online form | employment.govt.nz Call: 0800 20 90 20 Call 111 immediately. If you have COVID-19, tell them when you ring. You need to contact your care co-ordinator or call Healthline. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19response@health.govt.nz There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a participating vaccination site. How to get your My Vaccine Pass There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact MIQ. You can find contact details on their website. Contact us | miq.govt.nz If you have a health concern after your vaccination, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor. You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19vaccine@health.govt.nz Visit the Work and Income website for urgent financial support and ongoing needs. You can apply for a main benefit online and check your eligibility for food assistance. www.workandincome.govt.nz (external link) 0800 559 009 (MSD General Line) 0800 552 002 (Seniors 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Students) In MyMSD you can check your payments, tell MSD about changes and apply for a benefit or NZ Super: Use MyMSD You can also use the COVID-19 financial support tool on this website to see what support is available to you. Use the financial support tool If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: traffic light settings vaccination or testing requirements for workers managed isolation requirements. Report a breach online Face masks If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements How to report false or misleading information that you see can be found on this website. Report false or misleading information Contact the COVID-19 media team: Email: covid19media@dpmc.govt.nz The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. NZ COVID Tracer app There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Get your QR code poster If you have questions or feedback about the app, QR code posters or any problems using them, you will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Call 0800 800 606 You must enable JavaScript to submit this form --- Section Separator --- Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. --- Section Separator --- If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach --- Section Separator --- You can contact the COVID-19 Group by using our online form above or sending a letter to us. If you are sending us feedback about Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage that you have feedback about. Postal address: COVID-19 Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand
Home About this site Terms of use --- Section Separator --- Welcome to Covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC-BY-NC Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/ (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government Logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photograph, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. DPMC may remove access to the content at any time. We updated this 'Copyright and attribution' section on 20 January 2022. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Welcome to Covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. --- Section Separator --- Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC-BY-NC Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/ (external link) The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government Logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photograph, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use. DPMC may remove access to the content at any time. We updated this 'Copyright and attribution' section on 20 January 2022. --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact us Wellbeing helplines and support Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home COVID-19 vaccines Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can get a booster if it has been at least 3 months since your second dose. You might be interested in How children and young people can get vaccinated The Big Boost My Covid Record Side effects International travel vaccination certificates Support and information for disabled people --- Section Separator --- People aged 18 and over can now get a Pfizer booster 3 months (93 days) after their second dose. Getting your booster will give you and your whānau greater protection from COVID-19, including Omicron. The latest advice from the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Group recommends shortening the interval to 3 months. By reducing the interval, an additional 1 million New Zealanders are eligible to receive their booster before the end of summer. This means more people — especially Māori — will be able to receive a booster before Omicron reaches its peak. --- Section Separator --- Find out about how to book your vaccination, walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres, booster doses, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. Find information about COVID-19 vaccination for businesses and workers, including border and MIQ workers. Discover NZ Vaccine Facts, learn about vaccine development, safety and effectiveness, and find resources to download and share. --- Section Separator --- Last updated 14 February 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. COVID (external link) (external link) COVID-19 vaccination rates around New Zealand COVID-19 vaccination uptake rates within Māori communities (external link) (external link) COVID-19 vaccination uptake rates within Māori communities (external link) (external link) COVID-19 vaccination uptake rates within Pacific communities (external link) COVID-19 vaccination uptake rates within Pacific communities (external link) 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 4,053,074 First doses administered 4,053,074 First doses administered 3,983,151 Second doses administered 3,983,151 Second doses administered --- Section Separator --- Episode 1: COVID-19 and why vaccinations are important Episode 2: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Episode 3: What is an mRNA vaccine? Episode 4: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? Episode 5: Are vaccines safe? Episode 6: What are the benefits of vaccination? Episode 7: How to get a vaccine and are there side effects? Episode 8: What else we can do to protect ourselves and others? --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination status certificates My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. It is the only valid document that can be used to access events or venues that require proof of your vaccination status. Businesses cannot accept a purple vaccination card, vaccination confirmation letter or exemption card as proof of your vaccination status. View a larger image of My Vaccine Pass example [PNG, 3.3 MB] You can request a My Vaccine Pass if you are aged 12 or over and: have had 2 doses of the Pfizer or AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand, or been vaccinated overseas with an approved vaccine, or have a medical exemption. Your My Vaccine Pass will include your name, date of birth and a QR code. You can save it on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. It will expire 6 months from the date of issue, or on 1 June 2022, whichever comes sooner. We have set an expiry date to allow flexibility in how we respond to the changing nature of the pandemic. People under the age of 12 years and 3 months are not required to show proof of vaccination. You may need to show your My Vaccine Pass to access certain events and venues operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights). These could include: events hospitality close-proximity businesses, such as hairdressers and gyms sport faith-based gatherings. You will not need to show proof of vaccination to access basic needs services like: supermarkets pharmacies health and disability services petrol stations public transport — for example, buses, trains and commuter ferries schools and early learning service providers housing and housing support services. Learn about the traffic lights My Vaccine Pass cannot be used for overseas travel. If you are going to another country, you will need to request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. International Travel Vaccination Certificates There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a participating vaccination site. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, you can get your pass over the phone or at a participating vaccination site. A National Health Index (NHI) number is a unique number that is given to each person using health and disability support services in New Zealand. You can find your NHI number on: a prescription or prescription receipt, a prescription medicine label a hospital letter an x-ray or test result your patient portal (ManageMyHealth). Once your pass has been emailed to you, it gives you the option to save it to your phone: For Apple, click 'Add to Apple Wallet' For Android, click 'Save to phone' Another way to save the pass to your phone is to take a screenshot of the QR code when you open the PDF in your email. You can save this to your phone. Make sure it is not blurry or pixelated and there is blank space around the edges. It is helpful if your name can be seen in the screenshot. Android screenshot instructions (external link) iPhone screenshot instructions (external link) If you would prefer to have a physical copy of your pass, download and print the PDF attachment in the email. When printing, use the highest quality setting on your printer to ensure the QR code is clear so it can be scanned easily when entering venues. Save your pass to your iPhone Save your pass to your Android phone Businesses may scan the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. This app will confirm your vaccination status for the business. You may also be asked to show ID. It will not store your data or show any information other than your name and date of birth. When a business or organisation uses the app to scan your My Vaccine Pass, it will show a green tick — this confirms it is a valid pass. It also shows your name and date of birth. The verifier can request to see your ID to check it matches the details on the app. It is an offence for a business to sell the details from the My Vaccine Pass, or use the details for purposes outside the COVID-19 response. Any personal information collected — for example, that you have been verified — remains subject to the protections in the Privacy Act 2020. The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that businesses and organisations can use to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and keep their community safe. At certain traffic light settings, businesses and organisations are encouraged to use the app to check customers' My Vaccine Pass. Requirements will depend on the sector and the choices the business or organisation has made about how they will operate under the traffic light system. If you need technical help with the NZ Pass Verifier app, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 . Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) NZ Pass Verifier — Terms of use and privacy policy | health.govt.nz (external link) Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry — version 1 [PDF, 115 KB] Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry — version 2 [PDF, 86 KB] Kia ora — Please have your vaccine pass ready [PDF, 116 KB] Vaccine pass required for entry [PDF, 86 KB] My Vaccine Pass is the only valid document that can be used to access events or venues requiring proof of vaccination status. All My Vaccine Passes should be visually checked to allow access. A reasonable number should also be scanned using the NZ Pass Verifier app to allow access. You may also check details by requesting ID (for example, driver licence). If you are unsure whether someone has a Ministry of Health-issued medical exemption or is fully vaccinated, scan their My Vaccine Pass to check they meet the requirements to enter your premises. The NZ Pass Verifier app will show a green tick. The Ministry of Health is the only agency authorised to provide a medical exemption from getting vaccinated. A person who has a medical exemption can get a My Vaccine Pass, which when scanned will show a green tick — the same as all passes. Interim solution for people waiting for their My Vaccine Pass Exemptions from mandatory vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) Find advice on checking My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. It is the only valid document that can be used to access events or venues that require proof of your vaccination status. Businesses cannot accept a purple vaccination card, vaccination confirmation letter or exemption card as proof of your vaccination status. View a larger image of My Vaccine Pass example [PNG, 3.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- You can request a My Vaccine Pass if you are aged 12 or over and: have had 2 doses of the Pfizer or AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand, or been vaccinated overseas with an approved vaccine, or have a medical exemption. Your My Vaccine Pass will include your name, date of birth and a QR code. You can save it on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. It will expire 6 months from the date of issue, or on 1 June 2022, whichever comes sooner. We have set an expiry date to allow flexibility in how we respond to the changing nature of the pandemic. People under the age of 12 years and 3 months are not required to show proof of vaccination. --- Section Separator --- You may need to show your My Vaccine Pass to access certain events and venues operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights). These could include: events hospitality close-proximity businesses, such as hairdressers and gyms sport faith-based gatherings. You will not need to show proof of vaccination to access basic needs services like: supermarkets pharmacies health and disability services petrol stations public transport — for example, buses, trains and commuter ferries schools and early learning service providers housing and housing support services. Learn about the traffic lights My Vaccine Pass cannot be used for overseas travel. If you are going to another country, you will need to request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. International Travel Vaccination Certificates --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a participating vaccination site. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, you can get your pass over the phone or at a participating vaccination site. --- Section Separator --- A National Health Index (NHI) number is a unique number that is given to each person using health and disability support services in New Zealand. You can find your NHI number on: a prescription or prescription receipt, a prescription medicine label a hospital letter an x-ray or test result your patient portal (ManageMyHealth). --- Section Separator --- Once your pass has been emailed to you, it gives you the option to save it to your phone: For Apple, click 'Add to Apple Wallet' For Android, click 'Save to phone' Another way to save the pass to your phone is to take a screenshot of the QR code when you open the PDF in your email. You can save this to your phone. Make sure it is not blurry or pixelated and there is blank space around the edges. It is helpful if your name can be seen in the screenshot. Android screenshot instructions (external link) iPhone screenshot instructions (external link) If you would prefer to have a physical copy of your pass, download and print the PDF attachment in the email. When printing, use the highest quality setting on your printer to ensure the QR code is clear so it can be scanned easily when entering venues. --- Section Separator --- Save your pass to your iPhone Save your pass to your Android phone --- Section Separator --- Businesses may scan the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. This app will confirm your vaccination status for the business. You may also be asked to show ID. It will not store your data or show any information other than your name and date of birth. When a business or organisation uses the app to scan your My Vaccine Pass, it will show a green tick — this confirms it is a valid pass. It also shows your name and date of birth. The verifier can request to see your ID to check it matches the details on the app. It is an offence for a business to sell the details from the My Vaccine Pass, or use the details for purposes outside the COVID-19 response. Any personal information collected — for example, that you have been verified — remains subject to the protections in the Privacy Act 2020. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that businesses and organisations can use to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and keep their community safe. At certain traffic light settings, businesses and organisations are encouraged to use the app to check customers' My Vaccine Pass. Requirements will depend on the sector and the choices the business or organisation has made about how they will operate under the traffic light system. If you need technical help with the NZ Pass Verifier app, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 . Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) NZ Pass Verifier — Terms of use and privacy policy | health.govt.nz (external link) Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry — version 1 [PDF, 115 KB] Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry — version 2 [PDF, 86 KB] Kia ora — Please have your vaccine pass ready [PDF, 116 KB] Vaccine pass required for entry [PDF, 86 KB] --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is the only valid document that can be used to access events or venues requiring proof of vaccination status. All My Vaccine Passes should be visually checked to allow access. A reasonable number should also be scanned using the NZ Pass Verifier app to allow access. You may also check details by requesting ID (for example, driver licence). If you are unsure whether someone has a Ministry of Health-issued medical exemption or is fully vaccinated, scan their My Vaccine Pass to check they meet the requirements to enter your premises. The NZ Pass Verifier app will show a green tick. The Ministry of Health is the only agency authorised to provide a medical exemption from getting vaccinated. A person who has a medical exemption can get a My Vaccine Pass, which when scanned will show a green tick — the same as all passes. Interim solution for people waiting for their My Vaccine Pass Exemptions from mandatory vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) Find advice on checking My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificate How to use My Covid Record
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines. --- Section Separator --- We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out how COVID-19 vaccines were developed, how we know they are effective, and how the Pfizer vaccine works. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out how COVID-19 vaccines were developed, how we know they are effective, and how the Pfizer vaccine works. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Vaccination for children and young people The COVID-19 vaccine protects your child, your whānau and your community. It is free and available now for everyone aged 5 and over. --- Section Separator --- If you would like to talk through any question or worries, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The COVID Vaccination Healthline team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children and young people who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. Like adults, if your child is infected with COVID-19 they may transmit the virus to other people. Immunising tamariki and rangatahi helps protect whānau members whose health makes them more vulnerable to COVID-19. There is no legal or regulatory requirement (vaccine mandate) for tamariki to be immunised. It is completely up to the parents or caregivers to decide if they want their children vaccinated. Learn more about the effects of COVID-19 People under 18 years old are not eligible for a booster dose or the AstraZeneca vaccine. --- Section Separator --- 4 reasons to get tamariki vaccinated against COVID-19 Protecting your whānau from COVID-19 How immunising tamariki against COVID-19 helps protect your community --- Section Separator --- If children and young people who have been vaccinated do develop COVID-19, they are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. For children aged 5 to 11, clinical trial results showed the Pfizer vaccine was 90.7% effective against getting COVID-19 symptoms, and no participants developed severe COVID-19. Pfizer has reported 100% efficacy against symptomatic COVID-19 infection in the 12 to 15-year-old age group — with a higher antibody response than was seen in the 16 to 25-year-old age group. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- The risks and benefits of immunisation for children How safe is the vaccination for tamariki? --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is responsible for approving the use of all medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. They only approve a vaccine in Aotearoa once they are satisfied it has met strict standards for safety, efficacy and quality. The trials in 5 to 11-year-olds with a child dose of the Pfizer showed the vaccine was safe, and side effects were similar to those observed with the full dose in 12 to 15-year-olds. The side effects were generally mild. Millions of people aged 12 to 15 have now been vaccinated around the world, and no additional safety concerns have been raised. Research and data on vaccinating children aged 5-11 | health.govt.nz (external link) Research and data on vaccinating young people aged 12-15 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Explain that it might hurt for a short time, just like their other childhood immunisations. Tell them there will be a small needle and that they will feel a sharp scratch or sting briefly but then it will be over. They may have a sore arm, fever, headache or feel tired afterwards. It is important to tell them why they are getting vaccinated. Let them know the vaccine will protect them against COVID-19, and protect their family, their grandparents, their community, and other kids at school who may be more at risk from COVID-19 if they catch it. Make sure they know they will need 2 doses. Give them time to ask the vaccinator questions if they have them. Have some games or toys ready so you can distract them during their vaccination and entertain them while you wait for 15 minutes afterwards. Arrange a fun activity or treat to look forward to after the appointment. Tell them that they might feel a bit unwell or a day or two, and arrange to spend some extra time with them if you can. --- Section Separator --- Dr Lily talks with tamariki about vaccines Explaining the COVID-19 vaccine to children How to talk with your tamariki about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand that offer vaccinations for tamariki and rangatahi. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Book or find a vaccination centre --- Section Separator --- What to expect after your child's vaccination [PDF, 260 KB] COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Watch NZ Vaccine Facts Information for Māori communities | Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination | Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link)
We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Answering your questions Why do I need a booster? Can I get Novavax? Should I get vaccinated if I am pregnant? Does the vaccine work against Omicron? Is it safe for children? Will I get side effects? Will the vaccine stop transmission? --- Section Separator --- Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. In the clinical trials it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against Omicron, a booster is likely offer greater protection by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. We are encouraging everyone aged 18 and over who has been fully vaccinated for at least 3 months to get a free booster now. --- Section Separator --- Dr Ashley Bloomfield on Omicron and boosters 4 reasons to get tamariki vaccinated against COVID-19 NZ Vaccine Facts: How the vaccine works against variants of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines needed to be rolled out quickly, but that does not mean safety was compromised. The Pfizer vaccine we are using in New Zealand is held to the same high safety standards as any other medicine. COVID-19 vaccines are the most well-studied vaccines ever made. More than 50% of the world's population have had a COVID-19 vaccine. Nearly 4 million people in Aotearoa have had their second Pfizer vaccine, and nearly 1.5 million people have had a booster. This means we have lots of data to show the Pfizer vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety. --- Section Separator --- Dr Nikki Turner on the safety of vaccines during pregnancy Dr Ashley Bloomfield on safety and development of the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- You might feel nervous about getting the vaccine, which is normal. A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm, and it will be over very fast. You will then need to stay for at least 15 minutes so we can make sure you do not have an immediate reaction. --- Section Separator --- What to expect if you have a needle phobia How to get a vaccine and are there side effects? Vaccinator Priscilla shares her story about vaccinating her community --- Section Separator --- If you have another question, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine resources Fact sheets --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 150 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 360 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read --- Section Separator --- An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 150 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 360 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] --- Section Separator --- Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children and young people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 542 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 458 KB] Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 668 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB] We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. Watch all our campaign videos (external link) COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. --- Section Separator --- Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 542 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 458 KB] Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 668 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. --- Section Separator --- Watch all our campaign videos (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children and young people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Unite against COVID-19 Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Information for Māori communities — Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination information — Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Starting a conversation with someone who is vaccine hesitant — Rachel Prebble How to have a positive conversation about hesitancy — Rachel Prebble Talking to Whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine — Dr Hinemoa Elder --- Section Separator --- It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Unite against COVID-19 Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Information for Māori communities — Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination information — Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. --- Section Separator --- Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] --- Section Separator --- Starting a conversation with someone who is vaccine hesitant — Rachel Prebble How to have a positive conversation about hesitancy — Rachel Prebble Talking to Whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine — Dr Hinemoa Elder --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children and young people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Choose an episode Episode 1 Episode 2 Episode 3 Episode 4 Episode 5 Episode 6 Episode 7 Episode 8 --- Section Separator --- In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, traffic light settings, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face masks to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about how Aotearoa New Zealand responded to the COVID-19 pandemic, and why getting vaccinated is an important step towards protection from the virus. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the virus SARS-CoV-2. But what is a virus? And how do vaccines prepare you to fight off these ‘invaders’, so you are less likely to get sick if you catch it? --- Section Separator --- Vaccines can be made in different ways. For COVID-19, Aotearoa New Zealand chose to use a type of vaccine known as an mRNA vaccine, produced by Pfizer. But what is an mRNA vaccine? --- Section Separator --- It is natural for a virus to change and produce variations of itself. These are known as 'variants' and are all slightly different to the original virus. But will vaccines still work against them? --- Section Separator --- Development of vaccines for COVID-19 was based on decades of research. The vaccines were produced quickly because testing was able to be streamlined. Before getting consent for use in Aotearoa New Zealand, vaccines must meet our strict standards for quality and safety. --- Section Separator --- The benefits of getting a COVID-19 vaccine far outweigh the risks. A vaccination provides you, your whānau and your communities better protection against the virus. When everyone is vaccinated, this helps to end the pandemic. --- Section Separator --- Booking your COVID-19 vaccination is easy. When you get the 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine, you may experience some side effects. So what are they? Note: The advice about the gap between doses has changed since this video was made. We are now advising all New Zealanders to consider a shorter gap of 3 weeks between their 2 doses, instead of the standard 6 weeks. Reducing this gap means more people can be fully vaccinated sooner, increasing our community immunity. --- Section Separator --- Vaccination will help us get back to doing the things we love. But keep carrying out these simple steps so we stay on top of outbreaks: stay home if you are unwell and get a test, keep scanning in to keep track of where you have been, wear a face mask in situations where the virus could spread easily (like on public transport), and wash your hands regularly. Watch episode 8 (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination If you are pregnant or breastfeeding --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. It is recommended that pregnant people aged 18 and older receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy, at least 3 months after the primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Pregnant women should discuss the timing of their booster with their midwife, obstetrician or general practitioner. Get your vaccine booster Sarah, 25 weeks pregnant, on vaccine hesitancy Doctor Nikki on pregnancy, COVID-19, and the vaccine If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility — IMAC (external link) Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 458 KB] Side effects Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. It is recommended that pregnant people aged 18 and older receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy, at least 3 months after the primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Pregnant women should discuss the timing of their booster with their midwife, obstetrician or general practitioner. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Sarah, 25 weeks pregnant, on vaccine hesitancy Doctor Nikki on pregnancy, COVID-19, and the vaccine --- Section Separator --- If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility — IMAC (external link) --- Section Separator --- Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 458 KB] Side effects Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children and young people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination If you have a health condition --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. You can have the third primary dose at least 8 weeks after your second dose. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. If it is 8 weeks since your second dose, and your doctor offers the COVID-19 vaccination, they can give you the third dose immediately. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. Learn more about COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people — Ministry of Health (external link) If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster 3 months after receiving their third primary dose. Get your vaccine booster If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine. What the AstraZeneca vaccine contains What is in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. --- Section Separator --- If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. You can have the third primary dose at least 8 weeks after your second dose. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. If it is 8 weeks since your second dose, and your doctor offers the COVID-19 vaccination, they can give you the third dose immediately. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. Learn more about COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster 3 months after receiving their third primary dose. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine. What the AstraZeneca vaccine contains What is in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children and young people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination About the AstraZeneca vaccine --- Section Separator --- The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and older who either wants a different option or if you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. Both the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines will protect you against the symptoms of COVID-19. Both vaccines are free. The AstraZeneca vaccine needs 2 doses. You will need to wait at least 4 weeks before getting your second dose. To have the best protection, you need to get both doses of the vaccine. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety by Medsafe. Medsafe only grants approval for using a vaccine in Aotearoa once it is satisfied the international evidence shows benefits outweigh the risks. There have been no shortcuts taken in granting approval. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been used successfully by millions worldwide. You should not get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you: have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients have had a major blood clot at the same time as having low levels of platelets (thrombocytopenia) after receiving any COVID-19 vaccine have had Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS – a condition causing fluid leakage from small blood vessels). You cannot get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you are under 18 years old. The AstraZeneca vaccine is injected into a muscle (usually in the upper arm). The second injection can be given between 4 and 12 weeks after the first injection. If you get AstraZeneca for the first dose then you should also get it (and not the Pfizer vaccine) for the second dose. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination. There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. Pregnancy and the Pfizer vaccine The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The AstraZeneca vaccine stimulates the body’s immune system. It causes the body to produce antibodies to help fight the virus. This will help to protect you against COVID-19 in the future. None of the ingredients in this vaccine can cause COVID-19. COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. In the clinical trials, the AstraZeneca vaccine gave 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. It also shows effectiveness against hospital admission of at least 80% after a single dose. For the best protection, you need 2 doses. As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines There are some side effects that are very rare but are more serious. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. If you experience any of these symptoms, seek medical attention immediately. AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Assessing and approving the vaccines | Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca | Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) --- Section Separator --- The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and older who either wants a different option or if you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. Both the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines will protect you against the symptoms of COVID-19. Both vaccines are free. The AstraZeneca vaccine needs 2 doses. You will need to wait at least 4 weeks before getting your second dose. To have the best protection, you need to get both doses of the vaccine. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety by Medsafe. Medsafe only grants approval for using a vaccine in Aotearoa once it is satisfied the international evidence shows benefits outweigh the risks. There have been no shortcuts taken in granting approval. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been used successfully by millions worldwide. --- Section Separator --- You should not get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you: have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients have had a major blood clot at the same time as having low levels of platelets (thrombocytopenia) after receiving any COVID-19 vaccine have had Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS – a condition causing fluid leakage from small blood vessels). You cannot get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you are under 18 years old. The AstraZeneca vaccine is injected into a muscle (usually in the upper arm). The second injection can be given between 4 and 12 weeks after the first injection. If you get AstraZeneca for the first dose then you should also get it (and not the Pfizer vaccine) for the second dose. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination. There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. Pregnancy and the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The AstraZeneca vaccine stimulates the body’s immune system. It causes the body to produce antibodies to help fight the virus. This will help to protect you against COVID-19 in the future. None of the ingredients in this vaccine can cause COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. In the clinical trials, the AstraZeneca vaccine gave 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. It also shows effectiveness against hospital admission of at least 80% after a single dose. For the best protection, you need 2 doses. --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines There are some side effects that are very rare but are more serious. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. If you experience any of these symptoms, seek medical attention immediately. --- Section Separator --- AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Assessing and approving the vaccines | Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca | Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children and young people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination About the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. It does not contain any live, dead or deactivated viruses. It does not affect or interact with your DNA or genes. If you are aged 18 years or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The vaccine sends a set of instructions to teach your body how to fight the COVID-19 virus. With these instructions, your body learns to recognise the COVID-19 virus and use antibodies against it. Antibodies stop the virus from infecting your cells and help to kill it. If you come into contact with the COVID-19 virus in the future, your body will have the right tools to protect itself so you are less likely to get sick. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. We know the Pfizer vaccine works because it went through months of clinical testing with more than 40,000 people before it was approved for use. Clinical trials compared the results of a vaccinated group with another group who received a placebo (salt solution). In the clinical trials, it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. COVID-19: Vaccine clinical trials and testing – Ministry of Health (external link) Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) This is the first time scientists and governments from around the world have united to develop a vaccine. This global collaboration meant vaccines were developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Scientists had a head start because of all the research already carried out on related viruses. Governments, private companies and funding agencies have spent a lot of money. This means more could be done in a short space of time. Researchers and governments from different countries shared information and worked together. More people than usual volunteered for clinical trials. Some clinical trials were done at the same time, instead of one after another. Large manufacturing plants were built so more vaccines can be made faster than was possible before. Researchers could show the vaccine worked sooner than usual, because there are so many cases of COVID-19. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. Medsafe has given the Pfizer vaccine provisional approval (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It reviews data from ongoing clinical trials around the world, and reports from healthcare professionals and people who have been vaccinated. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects It is normal to have questions about taking a new medicine. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine. You can protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Learn how to spot misinformation and scams COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. It does not contain any live, dead or deactivated viruses. It does not affect or interact with your DNA or genes. If you are aged 18 years or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine --- Section Separator --- The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The vaccine sends a set of instructions to teach your body how to fight the COVID-19 virus. With these instructions, your body learns to recognise the COVID-19 virus and use antibodies against it. Antibodies stop the virus from infecting your cells and help to kill it. If you come into contact with the COVID-19 virus in the future, your body will have the right tools to protect itself so you are less likely to get sick. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. We know the Pfizer vaccine works because it went through months of clinical testing with more than 40,000 people before it was approved for use. Clinical trials compared the results of a vaccinated group with another group who received a placebo (salt solution). In the clinical trials, it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. COVID-19: Vaccine clinical trials and testing – Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) --- Section Separator --- This is the first time scientists and governments from around the world have united to develop a vaccine. This global collaboration meant vaccines were developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Scientists had a head start because of all the research already carried out on related viruses. Governments, private companies and funding agencies have spent a lot of money. This means more could be done in a short space of time. Researchers and governments from different countries shared information and worked together. More people than usual volunteered for clinical trials. Some clinical trials were done at the same time, instead of one after another. Large manufacturing plants were built so more vaccines can be made faster than was possible before. Researchers could show the vaccine worked sooner than usual, because there are so many cases of COVID-19. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. Medsafe has given the Pfizer vaccine provisional approval (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It reviews data from ongoing clinical trials around the world, and reports from healthcare professionals and people who have been vaccinated. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- It is normal to have questions about taking a new medicine. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine. You can protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Learn how to spot misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children and young people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Find out about how to book your vaccination, walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres, booster doses, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a vaccination at any traffic light setting. Whether you get the Pfizer vaccine or the AstraZeneca vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection from COVID-19. Learn about booster doses for COVID-19 vaccines, when you need one and how to get it. Find out how to change the details of a COVID-19 vaccination booking. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a vaccination at any traffic light setting. Whether you get the Pfizer vaccine or the AstraZeneca vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection from COVID-19. Learn about booster doses for COVID-19 vaccines, when you need one and how to get it. Find out how to change the details of a COVID-19 vaccination booking. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments.
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your COVID-19 vaccination Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a vaccination at any traffic light setting. What you need to know How children and young people can get vaccinated Getting a booster Getting your second dose Change your appointment --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 or over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) It will take around 5 minutes to book your appointments. Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. Appointment availability map (external link) Book My Vaccine will show a list of vaccination centres where AstraZeneca is available. Not all sites will have it, as Pfizer is the main vaccine we are using in New Zealand. You must be aged 18 or over to get AstraZeneca. If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz --- Section Separator --- It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. 0800 28 29 26 It will take around 15 minutes to book your appointments. It is a good idea to have your NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. Find your NHI --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Note: Not all sites stock the Pfizer vaccine for children aged 5 to 11, so please check before you go. --- Section Separator --- Children aged 5 to 11 can get a COVID-19 vaccine from 17 January 2022. Find sites near you that are offering vaccinations for 5 to 11-year-olds --- Section Separator --- Find out how to change the details of a COVID-19 vaccination booking. Reschedule or cancel your appointment --- Section Separator --- If you need to be reminded of the time, date or venue for your appointments, you can try the following. If you booked with your email address or mobile number, your appointment details will have been sent to you. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. If you know your booking reference, you can check your appointment details through Book My Vaccine. Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Manage your appointments — Book My Vaccine (external link) They will be able to find your appointment details — you do not need to know your booking reference number. Call 0800 28 29 26 . --- Section Separator --- A National Health Index (NHI) number is a unique number that is given to each person using health and disability support services in New Zealand. You can find your NHI number on: a prescription or prescription receipt, a prescription medicine label a hospital letter an x-ray or test result your patient portal (ManageMyHealth). --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination and children Vaccine advice if you have a health condition Vaccine advice if you are pregnant or breastfeeding Support and information for disabled people
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your COVID-19 vaccination How children and young people can get vaccinated There are many places around New Zealand that offer vaccinations for tamariki and rangatahi. Book now or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. --- Section Separator --- Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a COVID-19 vaccine now. They will receive the Pfizer vaccine, with tamariki aged 5 to 11 getting a child (paediatric) dose. People under 18 years old are not eligible for a booster dose or the AstraZeneca vaccine. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change an appointment using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) It will take around 5 minutes to book. Check the appointment availability map first — it shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. You can choose the child vaccine (5-11s) or adult vaccine (12+) from the dropdown menu. Appointment availability map (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz --- Section Separator --- It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. 0800 28 29 26 It will take around 15 minutes to book. It is a good idea to have your child's NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. How to find an NHI number --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Not all COVID-19 vaccination sites will be offering vaccinations to 5 to 11-year-olds straight away. Find a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre near you --- Section Separator --- What to expect after your child's vaccination [PDF, 260 KB] Learn about vaccination for children and young people COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- People aged 18 and over can now get a Pfizer booster 3 months (93 days) after their second dose. Getting your booster will give you and your whānau greater protection from COVID-19, including Omicron. We are encouraging everyone who is eligible to get their booster in February. The Big Boost The latest advice from the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Group recommends shortening the interval to 3 months. By reducing the interval, an additional 1 million New Zealanders are eligible to receive their booster before the end of summer. This means more people — especially Māori — will be able to receive a booster before Omicron reaches its peak. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you have already booked your booster dose with a 4 month gap, you can keep your original appointment, or change it. To find out how long it has been since your second dose: view your vaccination records on My Covid Record (external link) call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 Visit a walk-in vaccination centre: Find a vaccination centre Book over the phone: 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). Book online through Book My Vaccine (external link) When you arrive for your booster, the date of your last vaccination will be checked in the COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). We are encouraging everyone aged 18 and over who has been fully vaccinated for at least 3 months to get a free booster now. Current evidence shows your protection against infection after 2 doses slowly decreases over time. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. A booster also helps reduce the chance of more serious infection, and it will be less likely that you need hospitalisation. About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are pregnant and aged 18 years and older, it is recommended you receive a booster of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect you and your baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster can be given at any stage of pregnancy, at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). You should discuss the timing of a booster with your midwife, obstetrician or general practitioner. Vaccine advice if you are pregnant or breastfeeding The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster dose 3 months after receiving their third primary dose. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition The Pfizer vaccine is the main vaccine being used in New Zealand for boosters, even if you had a different vaccine for your earlier doses. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine An AstraZeneca booster is only available 4 months after the second dose, but you will need a prescription. You can get a prescription at the vaccinating AstraZeneca clinic or before your appointment with your preferred doctor. It is free to visit the doctor for an AstraZeneca booster prescription. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. Side effects You do not need to get a booster to be eligible for a My Vaccine Pass or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your My Vaccine Pass will remain valid, even if you do not get a booster dose. At this stage, all My Vaccine Passes expire six months from date of issue, or on 1 June 2022, whichever comes sooner. My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificate The Vaccination Order makes it mandatory for workers in critical workforces to also receive a booster shot. The timeframes for workers to get a booster still remains the same. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- People aged 18 and over can now get a Pfizer booster 3 months (93 days) after their second dose. Getting your booster will give you and your whānau greater protection from COVID-19, including Omicron. We are encouraging everyone who is eligible to get their booster in February. The Big Boost The latest advice from the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Group recommends shortening the interval to 3 months. By reducing the interval, an additional 1 million New Zealanders are eligible to receive their booster before the end of summer. This means more people — especially Māori — will be able to receive a booster before Omicron reaches its peak. --- Section Separator --- You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you have already booked your booster dose with a 4 month gap, you can keep your original appointment, or change it. To find out how long it has been since your second dose: view your vaccination records on My Covid Record (external link) call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- Visit a walk-in vaccination centre: Find a vaccination centre Book over the phone: 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). Book online through Book My Vaccine (external link) When you arrive for your booster, the date of your last vaccination will be checked in the COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). --- Section Separator --- We are encouraging everyone aged 18 and over who has been fully vaccinated for at least 3 months to get a free booster now. Current evidence shows your protection against infection after 2 doses slowly decreases over time. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. A booster also helps reduce the chance of more serious infection, and it will be less likely that you need hospitalisation. About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are pregnant and aged 18 years and older, it is recommended you receive a booster of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect you and your baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster can be given at any stage of pregnancy, at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). You should discuss the timing of a booster with your midwife, obstetrician or general practitioner. Vaccine advice if you are pregnant or breastfeeding The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster dose 3 months after receiving their third primary dose. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is the main vaccine being used in New Zealand for boosters, even if you had a different vaccine for your earlier doses. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine An AstraZeneca booster is only available 4 months after the second dose, but you will need a prescription. You can get a prescription at the vaccinating AstraZeneca clinic or before your appointment with your preferred doctor. It is free to visit the doctor for an AstraZeneca booster prescription. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. Side effects --- Section Separator --- You do not need to get a booster to be eligible for a My Vaccine Pass or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your My Vaccine Pass will remain valid, even if you do not get a booster dose. At this stage, all My Vaccine Passes expire six months from date of issue, or on 1 June 2022, whichever comes sooner. My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- The Vaccination Order makes it mandatory for workers in critical workforces to also receive a booster shot. The timeframes for workers to get a booster still remains the same. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster The Big Boost The Big Boost Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your vaccine booster The Big Boost If you are 18 years and over, and you had your second vaccination at least 3 months ago, get your booster today. --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 February 2022 at 1:00 pm This data will be updated at 1pm daily. Find more information: COVID-19 vaccine data | Ministry of Health (external link) 1,891,241 Booster doses given 1,891,241 Booster doses given 59% Percentage of eligible population 59% Percentage of eligible population --- Section Separator --- With Omicron in the community, getting a COVID-19 booster is the best thing you can do to protect you and your whānau. During February, if everyone who can get boosted, does, we will help slow the spread of the virus and ensure more of us stay well.  That means those of us who need hospital care will be able to get it. If you are 18 and over, and it’s 3 months since your second vaccination, you can get your booster now. --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. 0800 28 29 26 Find a walk-in or drive through vaccination centre near you --- Section Separator --- Get behind the Big Boost – download posters, flyers, videos, email signatures, and key messages. Big Boost logo [PNG, 91 KB] Big Boost email signature [JPG, 112 KB] Big Boost editable poster [PDF, 164 KB] Big Boost digital poster [PDF, 154 KB] Big Boost key messages [PDF, 199 KB] Big Boost information for businesses [PDF, 147 KB]
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your second dose --- Section Separator --- The standard gap between doses of the Pfizer vaccine is 3 weeks or more . For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more . The standard gap between doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine is 4 weeks or more . Follow the same steps as for booking your first dose, either online or over the phone. You will be asked if you have had your first dose, and which type of vaccine it was. Book through Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 You can also choose to get your second dose without booking an appointment at a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised will be eligible to get a third primary dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. This third dose will be optional, but is recommended. Find more information on how to get a third primary dose Boosters Side effects --- Section Separator --- The standard gap between doses of the Pfizer vaccine is 3 weeks or more . For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more . The standard gap between doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine is 4 weeks or more . --- Section Separator --- Follow the same steps as for booking your first dose, either online or over the phone. You will be asked if you have had your first dose, and which type of vaccine it was. Book through Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 You can also choose to get your second dose without booking an appointment at a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. --- Section Separator --- Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised will be eligible to get a third primary dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. This third dose will be optional, but is recommended. Find more information on how to get a third primary dose --- Section Separator --- Boosters Side effects --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. The Pfizer vaccine is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are aged 18 or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects Whether you get the Pfizer vaccine or AstraZeneca vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection. The standard gap between doses is: 3 weeks or more for the Pfizer vaccine 4 weeks or more for the AstraZeneca vaccine. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap is 8 weeks or more between doses. Learn more about getting your second dose Clinical trials found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection and the AstraZeneca vaccine 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Keep track of where you have been. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face mask. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Healthy habits COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificates --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are aged 18 or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine --- Section Separator --- Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- Whether you get the Pfizer vaccine or AstraZeneca vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection. The standard gap between doses is: 3 weeks or more for the Pfizer vaccine 4 weeks or more for the AstraZeneca vaccine. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap is 8 weeks or more between doses. Learn more about getting your second dose --- Section Separator --- Clinical trials found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection and the AstraZeneca vaccine 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Keep track of where you have been. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face mask. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Healthy habits --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificates --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Side effects
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any of these new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is ‘skipping beats’ If you feel any of these symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor — there will be no charge for the consultation. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111, and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | health.govt.nz (external link) If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. --- Section Separator --- There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any of these new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is ‘skipping beats’ If you feel any of these symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor — there will be no charge for the consultation. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111, and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. --- Section Separator --- Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. --- Section Separator --- If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. --- Section Separator --- What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Side effects
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- These sectors and business types are where COVID-19 vaccinations are mandatory. Border and managed isolation and quarantine workers Education sector Health and disability sector Prison workers NZ Police NZ Defence Force Fire and Emergency New Zealand Workers covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate. This applies to food and drink services (excluding businesses that operate solely as takeaways), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. The mandate also applies to workers on-site at tertiary education premises when Red settings are in place. This may be because they work with populations that: are unable to be vaccinated are at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are at-risk of outbreaks. Vaccination in these sectors is an important tool for reducing infection and transmission. For example, in healthcare, workers are more likely to be in contact with someone that has COVID-19, making it a high-risk sector. A high rate of vaccination in this sector will help to protect staff from getting sick and passing COVID-19 onto others, including those who are at risk from severe illness. Most people in these sectors are already vaccinated. But getting everyone in these sectors vaccinated is critical to the management of COVID-19. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered COVID-19 booster vaccinations are now mandated for workforces covered by the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (Vaccinations Order). This came into effect on 23 January 2022. Border and MIQ workforces, if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 15 February 2022. Health and Disability workforces, if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 15 February 2022. Corrections, Police, Defence, and Fire and Emergency workforces, if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 15 February 2022 (for those who work in Border, MIQ or Health settings). Police, and Fire and Emergency workforces, if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 1 March 2022  (for those who work in education settings). The Education workforce, if eligible for a booster, is required to have this by 1 March 2022. A booster dose is mandated 6 months (183 days) from the end of your primary vaccination course. However, you are eligible for a vaccine booster 3 months after the completion of your primary vaccine course. It is recommended you take the opportunity for an earlier dose, rather than wait the full 6 months. You must be 18 years or older to receive a booster dose. If you are under 18 years old and have had your primary vaccination course, you can continue to work. Eight vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for workers who fall under a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination order. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). Workers covered by the mandate in New Zealand need to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. If you have had the Janssen vaccination overseas, you are fully vaccinated with 1 dose. If you have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, you will need to have a second dose to be fully vaccinated. You are able to get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as your second dose. Workers may be able to get an exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Depending on the type of work done, there are different exemption grounds that may apply. For example, for an exemption on medical grounds, workers will need to apply to the Ministry of Health. Exemptions for the border, health and education sectors and in prisons | health.govt.nz (external link) Exemptions for workers covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate | business.govt.nz (external link) Guidance for employees and employers on COVID-19 vaccination requirements in the workplace is available from Employment New Zealand. Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) If a business or workplace is not covered by a government mandate for COVID-19 vaccination, they can choose to do a risk assessment to see if work needs to be done by vaccinated workers, on health and safety grounds. The vaccination assessment tool provides a clear, legal framework to help businesses make decisions about vaccinations in the workplace. It is optional to use and does not replace any risk assessments that have already been done. Vaccination assessment tool | business.govt.nz (external link) How to decide what work requires a vaccinated employee | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) This toolkit contains information and resources to help workplaces, non-profit groups and other organisations to support COVID-19 vaccinations in their communities. The toolkit will help you to support the national vaccine and immunisation programme — and most importantly, ensure your people are protected from COVID-19. COVID-19 Vaccine Business and workplace toolkit [PDF, 2.7 MB] The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that businesses and organisations can use to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and keep their community safe. More information about NZ Pass Verifier app COVID-10 vaccine posters, videos and flyers COVID-19: Mandatory vaccinations | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Required Vaccinations Order | education.govt.nz (external link) Corrections COVID-19 vaccination programme | corrections.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | legislation.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- These sectors and business types are where COVID-19 vaccinations are mandatory. Border and managed isolation and quarantine workers Education sector Health and disability sector Prison workers NZ Police NZ Defence Force Fire and Emergency New Zealand Workers covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate. This applies to food and drink services (excluding businesses that operate solely as takeaways), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. The mandate also applies to workers on-site at tertiary education premises when Red settings are in place. This may be because they work with populations that: are unable to be vaccinated are at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are at-risk of outbreaks. Vaccination in these sectors is an important tool for reducing infection and transmission. For example, in healthcare, workers are more likely to be in contact with someone that has COVID-19, making it a high-risk sector. A high rate of vaccination in this sector will help to protect staff from getting sick and passing COVID-19 onto others, including those who are at risk from severe illness. Most people in these sectors are already vaccinated. But getting everyone in these sectors vaccinated is critical to the management of COVID-19. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered COVID-19 booster vaccinations are now mandated for workforces covered by the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (Vaccinations Order). This came into effect on 23 January 2022. Border and MIQ workforces, if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 15 February 2022. Health and Disability workforces, if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 15 February 2022. Corrections, Police, Defence, and Fire and Emergency workforces, if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 15 February 2022 (for those who work in Border, MIQ or Health settings). Police, and Fire and Emergency workforces, if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 1 March 2022  (for those who work in education settings). The Education workforce, if eligible for a booster, is required to have this by 1 March 2022. A booster dose is mandated 6 months (183 days) from the end of your primary vaccination course. However, you are eligible for a vaccine booster 3 months after the completion of your primary vaccine course. It is recommended you take the opportunity for an earlier dose, rather than wait the full 6 months. You must be 18 years or older to receive a booster dose. If you are under 18 years old and have had your primary vaccination course, you can continue to work. --- Section Separator --- Eight vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for workers who fall under a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination order. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). Workers covered by the mandate in New Zealand need to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. If you have had the Janssen vaccination overseas, you are fully vaccinated with 1 dose. If you have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, you will need to have a second dose to be fully vaccinated. You are able to get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as your second dose. --- Section Separator --- Workers may be able to get an exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Depending on the type of work done, there are different exemption grounds that may apply. For example, for an exemption on medical grounds, workers will need to apply to the Ministry of Health. Exemptions for the border, health and education sectors and in prisons | health.govt.nz (external link) Exemptions for workers covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Guidance for employees and employers on COVID-19 vaccination requirements in the workplace is available from Employment New Zealand. Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) If a business or workplace is not covered by a government mandate for COVID-19 vaccination, they can choose to do a risk assessment to see if work needs to be done by vaccinated workers, on health and safety grounds. The vaccination assessment tool provides a clear, legal framework to help businesses make decisions about vaccinations in the workplace. It is optional to use and does not replace any risk assessments that have already been done. Vaccination assessment tool | business.govt.nz (external link) How to decide what work requires a vaccinated employee | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) This toolkit contains information and resources to help workplaces, non-profit groups and other organisations to support COVID-19 vaccinations in their communities. The toolkit will help you to support the national vaccine and immunisation programme — and most importantly, ensure your people are protected from COVID-19. COVID-19 Vaccine Business and workplace toolkit [PDF, 2.7 MB] The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that businesses and organisations can use to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and keep their community safe. More information about NZ Pass Verifier app --- Section Separator --- COVID-10 vaccine posters, videos and flyers COVID-19: Mandatory vaccinations | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Required Vaccinations Order | education.govt.nz (external link) Corrections COVID-19 vaccination programme | corrections.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | legislation.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to get a vaccination Vaccinations and work Border worker vaccinations Border worker vaccinations Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Vaccination status certificates 2 shots for summer
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work Border worker vaccinations --- Section Separator --- On 1 May 2021, it became mandatory for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 outlines these requirements. On 14 July 2021, following an amendment to the Vaccinations Order, the rules for vaccination against COVID-19 was broadened to most border workers. Including airports and ports. The Vaccinations Order is a legally binding health instruction which requires certain groups of border workers to be vaccinated to undertake ‘certain work’. From 30 September 2021, any newly employed workers need to have their first dose of COVID-19 vaccination before starting work in a role covered by the Vaccinations Order. They must have their second dose within 35 days of their start date. On 23 January 2022, booster doses for border workers, if eligible, became mandatory. Workers are required to have their booster by 15 February 2022. All workers who are required to be tested for COVID-19 on either a 7-day or 14-day schedule will now also be required to get vaccinated before they perform that work. The expanded Order applies to people working at: managed isolation and quarantine facilities (MIQFs) and managed isolation facilities (MIFs) airside area of affected airports and some other higher-risk work at airports affected ports accommodation services where specified aircrew members are self-isolating. It also includes people doing work: that involves handling affected items removed from ships, planes or MIQFs or MIFs, and where the job is for a company that is routinely engaged to provide services for a plane, ship, MIQF or MIF, and where the person ‘has contact with’ people who belong to different groups in the Order. Eight vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for border workers in New Zealand that need to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). If they have had the Janssen vaccination overseas, they are fully vaccinated with 1 dose. If they have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, they will need to have a second dose within 35 days of starting work to be fully vaccinated. They can get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as their second dose. New workers must now have their first dose before starting work and their second within 35 days of their start date. This applies to government and private business employees. Border workers, if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 15 February. Otherwise, a booster dose is required within 6 months following the primary course of vaccination. You can book your COVID-19 vaccination online or over the phone, or by visiting a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. How to get a vaccination When your employer or PCBU enters your details in the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR) the BWTR will send your details to your local district health board (DHB). They will then contact you about booking your vaccination appointments. DHBs will prioritise bookings for affected workers who are not yet vaccinated. Email: bordersectorvaccinations@health.govt.nz To prevent the virus coming into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting all of the people who work there. A ll border workers , including those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports , and all of those who are contracted to provide services in the border environment , are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19. International evidence shows that booster doses provide good protection against Omicron, and by achieving high levels of booster protection we will be able to reduce the spread and severity of Omicron. Any border workers in roles affected by the Vaccinations Order must be vaccinated in order to continue with that work, unless they have an exemption or exception . The Order allows PCBUs to apply for a supply chain exemption for a named worker. The exemption came into force on 12 August 2021 . The Minister for COVID-19 Response decides if an exemption should be granted. Learn more about applying for a supply chain exemption | transport.govt.nz (external link) Guidance for PCBUs engaging with workers regarding vaccinations [PDF, 688 KB] COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Border worker testing | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- On 1 May 2021, it became mandatory for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 outlines these requirements. On 14 July 2021, following an amendment to the Vaccinations Order, the rules for vaccination against COVID-19 was broadened to most border workers. Including airports and ports. The Vaccinations Order is a legally binding health instruction which requires certain groups of border workers to be vaccinated to undertake ‘certain work’. From 30 September 2021, any newly employed workers need to have their first dose of COVID-19 vaccination before starting work in a role covered by the Vaccinations Order. They must have their second dose within 35 days of their start date. On 23 January 2022, booster doses for border workers, if eligible, became mandatory. Workers are required to have their booster by 15 February 2022. --- Section Separator --- All workers who are required to be tested for COVID-19 on either a 7-day or 14-day schedule will now also be required to get vaccinated before they perform that work. The expanded Order applies to people working at: managed isolation and quarantine facilities (MIQFs) and managed isolation facilities (MIFs) airside area of affected airports and some other higher-risk work at airports affected ports accommodation services where specified aircrew members are self-isolating. It also includes people doing work: that involves handling affected items removed from ships, planes or MIQFs or MIFs, and where the job is for a company that is routinely engaged to provide services for a plane, ship, MIQF or MIF, and where the person ‘has contact with’ people who belong to different groups in the Order. --- Section Separator --- Eight vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for border workers in New Zealand that need to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). If they have had the Janssen vaccination overseas, they are fully vaccinated with 1 dose. If they have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, they will need to have a second dose within 35 days of starting work to be fully vaccinated. They can get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as their second dose. --- Section Separator --- New workers must now have their first dose before starting work and their second within 35 days of their start date. This applies to government and private business employees. Border workers, if eligible for a booster, are required to have this by 15 February. Otherwise, a booster dose is required within 6 months following the primary course of vaccination. --- Section Separator --- You can book your COVID-19 vaccination online or over the phone, or by visiting a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. How to get a vaccination When your employer or PCBU enters your details in the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR) the BWTR will send your details to your local district health board (DHB). They will then contact you about booking your vaccination appointments. DHBs will prioritise bookings for affected workers who are not yet vaccinated. Email: bordersectorvaccinations@health.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- To prevent the virus coming into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting all of the people who work there. A ll border workers , including those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports , and all of those who are contracted to provide services in the border environment , are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19. International evidence shows that booster doses provide good protection against Omicron, and by achieving high levels of booster protection we will be able to reduce the spread and severity of Omicron. --- Section Separator --- Any border workers in roles affected by the Vaccinations Order must be vaccinated in order to continue with that work, unless they have an exemption or exception . --- Section Separator --- The Order allows PCBUs to apply for a supply chain exemption for a named worker. The exemption came into force on 12 August 2021 . The Minister for COVID-19 Response decides if an exemption should be granted. Learn more about applying for a supply chain exemption | transport.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Guidance for PCBUs engaging with workers regarding vaccinations [PDF, 688 KB] COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Border worker testing | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Border worker vaccinations
Home International travel Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. What you need to know Travel to New Zealand Travel with Australia International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- Entry to New Zealand is controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Find the latest information about travelling between Australia and New Zealand. Information on travelling between New Zealand and some Pacific Islands. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border restrictions. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders. --- Section Separator --- Entry to New Zealand is controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. Find the latest information about travelling between Australia and New Zealand. Information on travelling between New Zealand and some Pacific Islands. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border restrictions. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
Home International travel Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate on arrival, show proof of vaccination or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — for all destinations except the Cook Islands. For the Cook Islands, the New Zealand Government advises you to “exercise increased caution”. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders who are overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) You may need proof of vaccination to travel overseas. Anyone 12 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can now request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Requesting your certificate takes just 1 to 2 minutes and will be emailed to you within 24 hours. The quickest way to get your pass is through your My Covid Record, but if you cannot access this service you can call 0800 222 478 — have your NHI number ready. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with Australia and the Cook Islands. Quarantine-free travel with the Cook Islands New Zealand safe travel zone | homeaffairs.gov.au (external link) Some countries require travellers to have a negative COVID-19 test result before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your doctor. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your doctor or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given an electronic or paper copy of the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from MIQ. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate on arrival, show proof of vaccination or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — for all destinations except the Cook Islands. For the Cook Islands, the New Zealand Government advises you to “exercise increased caution”. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders who are overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may need proof of vaccination to travel overseas. Anyone 12 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can now request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Requesting your certificate takes just 1 to 2 minutes and will be emailed to you within 24 hours. The quickest way to get your pass is through your My Covid Record, but if you cannot access this service you can call 0800 222 478 — have your NHI number ready. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with Australia and the Cook Islands. Quarantine-free travel with the Cook Islands New Zealand safe travel zone | homeaffairs.gov.au (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some countries require travellers to have a negative COVID-19 test result before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your doctor. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your doctor or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given an electronic or paper copy of the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from MIQ. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World
Home International travel Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders and develop new ways for people to travel to and from Aotearoa New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Border will reopen to vaccinated New Zealanders from Australia at 11.59pm 27 February Reopens to New Zealanders in the rest of the world on 13 March MIQ removed for most travellers in phased reconnection, replaced by self-isolation and tests on-arrival MIQ to remain for the unvaccinated Five- step plan prioritises returning New Zealanders and brings forward the reopening of key visa categories in just over 5 weeks’ time in order to address worker shortages. Further visa categories reopen throughout the year to help accelerate economic recovery When New Zealand borders open --- Section Separator --- Maintaining our minimisation and protection strategy to stamp out the virus and keep our options open. Ensuring every eligible New Zealander is offered the opportunity to be vaccinated as soon as possible. Reducing the need for further lockdowns as much as possible by continuing to strengthen our health and contact tracing systems. Maintaining strong public health tools. Developing new ways to enable people to travel safely to and from New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Vaccination status and verification will be an important part of supporting New Zealanders to travel internationally. Anyone 12 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can now request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Requesting your certificate takes just 1 to 2 minutes and will be emailed to you within 24 hours.  The quickest way to get your pass is through your My Covid Record, but if you cannot access this service you can call 0800 222 478 — have your NHI number ready. How to use My Covid Record How to use My Covid Record to get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 260 KB] Sign in to My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- The traveller health declaration system will collect information from travellers arriving in New Zealand. In future, New Zealand will assess the health risk of each traveller depending on their vaccination status, test results and where they have travelled. This information will be used to help facilitate the traveller on arrival to New Zealand, for example whether they need to go into a MIQ facility, or be eligible for other isolation options and testing requirements. In order to confirm people’s vaccination status, this system will be able to validate the vaccination certificate and show it is authentic and can be trusted. The complexity of digital and operational systems that the traveller health declaration system needs means it will be developed in stages with security and simplicity for users being key to the solution. The first version will be available in Quarter1 2022. The New Zealand Customs Service will admin ister the project. --- Section Separator --- The forum started with a presentation from Sir David Skegg, with an overview of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group’s advice on reconnecting New Zealand. It was followed by a discussion MC’d by the Prime Minister’s Chief Science Advisor, Dame Juliet Gerrard. The experts bring a range of backgrounds and perspectives to a discussion about vaccination, safe borders, safe travel and public health habits. The event also featured a speech from Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and opening remarks from Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health. Panel experts included Sir David Skegg, Sir Brian Roche, Dr Maia Brewerton, Dr Api Talemaitoga, Mr Rob Fyfe, Professor Michael Baker, and Dr Ashley Bloomfield. The event was held on Thursday 12 August 2021.
Home International travel Survey of New Zealand Arrivals --- Section Separator --- You may have been asked to complete the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals if you arrived in New Zealand from 1 August 2020 to 1 April 2021. Get the results for arrivals from 1 August 2020 to 1 April 2021 We carried out a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected information to help inform government policy. It did not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) led the survey in partnership with 10 other government agencies, including the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Stats NZ, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social Development, Te Tūāpapa Kura Kāinga, Ministry of Education, Ministry for Primary Industries, Te Puni Kōkiri, Treasury and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd was contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. You were invited to do the survey if you arrived in New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021 and you were 18 years or over. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you arrived in New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd were given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. Your completion of the survey was voluntary. The survey took about 12 minutes to complete, and participants could do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. This survey is now closed and no further respondents will be contacted to participate. Your answers have been combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agreed to take part in further research, your contact details were sent to the research team at MBIE. This information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after it has sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz MBIE has published the final results for arrivals into New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border restrictions. Results from the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals: Findings for arrivals between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021 [PDF, 917 KB] The survey is now complete and this is the final reporting of high-level data for all arrivals during the survey period. Further Māori-focused results will be available in November 2021. --- Section Separator --- You may have been asked to complete the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals if you arrived in New Zealand from 1 August 2020 to 1 April 2021. --- Section Separator --- Get the results for arrivals from 1 August 2020 to 1 April 2021 --- Section Separator --- We carried out a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected information to help inform government policy. It did not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) led the survey in partnership with 10 other government agencies, including the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Stats NZ, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social Development, Te Tūāpapa Kura Kāinga, Ministry of Education, Ministry for Primary Industries, Te Puni Kōkiri, Treasury and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd was contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. --- Section Separator --- You were invited to do the survey if you arrived in New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021 and you were 18 years or over. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you arrived in New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd were given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. Your completion of the survey was voluntary. --- Section Separator --- The survey took about 12 minutes to complete, and participants could do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. This survey is now closed and no further respondents will be contacted to participate. --- Section Separator --- Your answers have been combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agreed to take part in further research, your contact details were sent to the research team at MBIE. This information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after it has sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- MBIE has published the final results for arrivals into New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border restrictions. Results from the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals: Findings for arrivals between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021 [PDF, 917 KB] --- Section Separator --- The survey is now complete and this is the final reporting of high-level data for all arrivals during the survey period. Further Māori-focused results will be available in November 2021. --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World
Home International travel Transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Some people do not need an NZeTA or transit visa. Immigration NZ explains who needs an NZeTA or transit visa, and who can transit New Zealand without one. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You can transit New Zealand to or from Australia. Flight availability may be limited — check with your airline if flights are available. You must meet all requirements for transiting New Zealand. Check what you need to do | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must also meet all requirements for your final destination. These may include valid visas to enter the country, negative pre-departure test results and proof of vaccination. Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. What you need to do depends on if you’re entering New Zealand: for 24 to 72 hours, or for longer than 72 hours, but less than 14 days. What to do if you are staying in NZ longer than 24 hours | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you are transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you are travelling though and your final destination. You will not be able to transit New Zealand if you do not meet all requirements. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you need to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 before flying to New Zealand. If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, then you must be fully vaccinated. This applies even though you are staying "airside" and you do not go through Customs. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Some people do not need an NZeTA or transit visa. Immigration NZ explains who needs an NZeTA or transit visa, and who can transit New Zealand without one. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can transit New Zealand to or from Australia. Flight availability may be limited — check with your airline if flights are available. You must meet all requirements for transiting New Zealand. Check what you need to do | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must also meet all requirements for your final destination. These may include valid visas to enter the country, negative pre-departure test results and proof of vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. What you need to do depends on if you’re entering New Zealand: for 24 to 72 hours, or for longer than 72 hours, but less than 14 days. What to do if you are staying in NZ longer than 24 hours | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you are transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you are travelling though and your final destination. You will not be able to transit New Zealand if you do not meet all requirements. --- Section Separator --- If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you need to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 before flying to New Zealand. If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, then you must be fully vaccinated. This applies even though you are staying "airside" and you do not go through Customs. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Entry to New Zealand is controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. What you need to know Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Transiting New Zealand Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Everyone travelling to New Zealand must be eligible to enter. Check your eligibility at Immigration NZ. You must complete a stay in MIQ for 10 days, unless you are exempt or are eligible to self-isolate. Over 2022, New Zealand's borders will reopen in 5 steps to allow more travellers to enter New Zealand. Eligible travellers can self-isolate on arrival. --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about our pre-departure testing requirements. Some travellers must meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before travelling to New Zealand by air. --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link)
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) --- Section Separator --- From 28 February 2022, New Zealand’s borders will begin to reopen in 5 steps. At each step, eligible travellers can self-isolate when they arrive in New Zealand. If you are not eligible to self-isolate, you will enter MIQ. Travellers from some Pacific countries do not need to enter MIQ or self-isolate. Check if you are eligible to self-isolate on arrival Travel with the Pacific Islands Everyone must enter MIQ, except travellers from some Pacific countries who can travel quarantine-free. From 28 February 2022, you will need to enter MIQ if you are: a New Zealand citizen who is unvaccinated (everyone else must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand), or fully vaccinated, but not eligible for self-isolation. If you have COVID-19 symptoms when you enter New Zealand, you may also need to enter MIQ. If you are entering MIQ, you must have an MIQ voucher before flying to New Zealand. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. Get your voucher by entering the virtual lobby up to 1 hour before room release. Everyone in the lobby has an equal chance of securing a room. Once the room release starts, everyone in the lobby will be moved into a queue. Your place in the queue is random. This means you do not need to keep refreshing your web browser, and you do not need to be the fastest to secure a room. MIQ will announce room releases at least 24 to 48 hours before they become available. How to get your voucher| miq.govt.nz (external link) About the virtual lobby | miq.govt.nz (external link) Get your voucher (external link) You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. The MIQ website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Emergency allocation requests | miq.govt.nz (external link) An exemption from managed isolation is not an exemption from having to isolate. Exemptions are considered on a case-by-case basis and the threshold for approval is very high. An exemption will only be approved where we can be confident that the health risk of transmission is very low. There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Apply for an exemption from staying in MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) The Government recovers some of the costs for MIQ. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for MIQ, and who needs to pay | miq.govt.nz (external link) Most people will be tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of their stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You may be asked to remain in your room until the result of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight into a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your facility to complete the rest of your stay. You can leave MIQ after 10 days if you: have a negative COVID-19 test on day 8/9 and, confirmation from a health practitioner that you are at low risk of having or transmitting COVID-19. You can keep yourself and those around you safe after you leave MIQ by keeping up healthy habits. This is especially important for the 7 days after you leave MIQ. Keep up healthy habits after you leave MIQ (external link) --- Section Separator --- From 28 February 2022, New Zealand’s borders will begin to reopen in 5 steps. At each step, eligible travellers can self-isolate when they arrive in New Zealand. If you are not eligible to self-isolate, you will enter MIQ. Travellers from some Pacific countries do not need to enter MIQ or self-isolate. Check if you are eligible to self-isolate on arrival Travel with the Pacific Islands --- Section Separator --- Everyone must enter MIQ, except travellers from some Pacific countries who can travel quarantine-free. From 28 February 2022, you will need to enter MIQ if you are: a New Zealand citizen who is unvaccinated (everyone else must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand), or fully vaccinated, but not eligible for self-isolation. If you have COVID-19 symptoms when you enter New Zealand, you may also need to enter MIQ. --- Section Separator --- If you are entering MIQ, you must have an MIQ voucher before flying to New Zealand. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. --- Section Separator --- Get your voucher by entering the virtual lobby up to 1 hour before room release. Everyone in the lobby has an equal chance of securing a room. Once the room release starts, everyone in the lobby will be moved into a queue. Your place in the queue is random. This means you do not need to keep refreshing your web browser, and you do not need to be the fastest to secure a room. MIQ will announce room releases at least 24 to 48 hours before they become available. How to get your voucher| miq.govt.nz (external link) About the virtual lobby | miq.govt.nz (external link) Get your voucher (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. The MIQ website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Emergency allocation requests | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- An exemption from managed isolation is not an exemption from having to isolate. Exemptions are considered on a case-by-case basis and the threshold for approval is very high. An exemption will only be approved where we can be confident that the health risk of transmission is very low. There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Apply for an exemption from staying in MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Government recovers some of the costs for MIQ. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for MIQ, and who needs to pay | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people will be tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of their stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You may be asked to remain in your room until the result of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight into a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your facility to complete the rest of your stay. You can leave MIQ after 10 days if you: have a negative COVID-19 test on day 8/9 and, confirmation from a health practitioner that you are at low risk of having or transmitting COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- You can keep yourself and those around you safe after you leave MIQ by keeping up healthy habits. This is especially important for the 7 days after you leave MIQ. Keep up healthy habits after you leave MIQ (external link) --- Section Separator --- When New Zealand's borders open Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ)
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. --- Section Separator --- Most travellers to New Zealand must have a negative PCR or RT-PCR test within 48 hours of their scheduled departure of their first international flight. There are alternative testing options available to travellers from specific countries and jurisdictions where PCR testing is limited. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned within 48 hours of departure for a PCR or RT-PCR test. You still need a test even if you have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You are responsible for checking your chosen testing provider can provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. Tests from free community testing stations may not be acceptable for travel clearance, so check before your test. Medical certificates If you are required to provide a medical certificate because you cannot take a test due to medical reasons, you will also need to get this 48 hours before your flight. --- Section Separator --- There are 105 specified places where obtaining a PCR or RT-PCR test may be difficult or not possible. Travellers from these places can instead provide evidence of a supervised negative rapid antigen test (RAT) or a supervised loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) test taken within 24 hours of departure. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned within 24 hours for a RAT or LAMP test to board your flight to New Zealand. All tests must be supervised by a health professional, which includes pharmacists, and verified in writing in the place of origin. --- Section Separator --- Some people are exempt from the pre-departure testing requirements. --- Section Separator --- You must make sure that the testing provider you choose can provide your test results with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. Free community testing stations often do not provide all the information required for travel clearance, so check before having your pre-departure test. If your pre-departure documentation does not contain the required information, or is not in the required format, you may be prevented from boarding your plane. The New Zealand Government requires that all pre-departure tests contain the following information for travel clearance: traveller’s name traveller’s date of birth and/or passport number date and time the test was conducted name of testing lab test type test result --- Section Separator --- You can get tested at a range of places. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. Make sure you check your chosen testing provider will provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. You are responsible for meeting any costs associated with your test. All tests (including at-home tests) must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. --- Section Separator --- Get information about pre-departure testing in other languages and alternate formats.
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The Government has announced its 5-step plan to re-open New Zealand's borders, beginning 27 February 2022. If you are eligible to travel to New Zealand and you wish to self-isolate on arrival, you will need to meet vaccination requirements. Most people need to provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand: New Zealand citizens do not need to provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand. But, they must have proof of vaccination to be eligible to self-isolate on arrival. Non-New Zealand citizens must provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand. Non-New Zealand citizens who are transiting New Zealand must have proof of vaccination. Your vaccination status, where you are travelling from, and what Steps have commenced will determine if you can self-isolate when you arrive. You need a digital vaccine certificate or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: your name the name of the vaccine or vaccines you received the name of the agency that administered them the name of the place where you received them the date of each dose or the date when a primary vaccination course was completed. If you are a New Zealand citizen, you can enter MIQ in New Zealand whether or not you are vaccinated. Non-New Zealand citizens who are eligible to travel to New Zealand must have proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand, and can enter MIQ. Travellers from some Pacific countries can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. Non-New Zealand citizens must have proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand. Any vaccine that has been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority is approved for entry into New Zealand for MIQ or quarantine-free travel. There are 33 vaccines that are approved. Note: a shorter list of vaccines are approved for proof of your vaccination status when you are in New Zealand. You must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. Your last dose must have been at least 14 days before you depart for New Zealand. You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a child aged 16 years and under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a medical practitioner are a refugee are a citizen of Afghanistan and you have been evacuated. You do not need to apply for an exemption. Foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand are not exempt from the requirements — they must carry evidence of being vaccinated on arrival in New Zealand. If you cannot be vaccinated for some other reason, you may be able to apply for an exemption. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can be given an exemption. Check the reasons why you could get an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health: Apply for an exemption | health.govt.nz (external link) From 28 February 2022, some fully vaccinated travellers (with approved vaccinations) can self-isolate on arrival. To be eligible for self-isolation you must have been vaccinated with one of a shorter list of approved vaccines. If you are vaccinated with a government approved vaccine but haven’t had one of the types or combinations listed below, you may be able to enter via MIQ. Your vaccination status, where you are travelling from, and what Steps have commenced will determine if you can self-isolate when you arrive. Who can self-isolate when New Zealand’s borders open There are 3 ways you can meet the vaccination requirement to be eligible for self-isolation. 1. A complete course of any combination of the following Medsafe or WHO approved vaccines: 2. Or, a complete course of any other government-approved vaccine (see the list of vaccines below) and 1 dose of Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Moderna or Janssen. 3. Or, a single dose of any other government-approved vaccine (see the list of vaccines below) and 1 dose of Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Moderna or Janssen. U nvaccinated children aged 16 years and under can enter self-isolation on arrival if they are travelling alone or with parents or guardians who meet the vaccination requirements for self-isolation. Everyone else must be fully vaccinated. If you have a vaccine exemption or you cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons, then you may be able to enter New Zealand through MIQ. You cannot self-isolate on arrival. --- Section Separator --- The Government has announced its 5-step plan to re-open New Zealand's borders, beginning 27 February 2022. If you are eligible to travel to New Zealand and you wish to self-isolate on arrival, you will need to meet vaccination requirements. --- Section Separator --- Most people need to provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand: New Zealand citizens do not need to provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand. But, they must have proof of vaccination to be eligible to self-isolate on arrival. Non-New Zealand citizens must provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand. Non-New Zealand citizens who are transiting New Zealand must have proof of vaccination. Your vaccination status, where you are travelling from, and what Steps have commenced will determine if you can self-isolate when you arrive. --- Section Separator --- You need a digital vaccine certificate or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: your name the name of the vaccine or vaccines you received the name of the agency that administered them the name of the place where you received them the date of each dose or the date when a primary vaccination course was completed. --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen, you can enter MIQ in New Zealand whether or not you are vaccinated. Non-New Zealand citizens who are eligible to travel to New Zealand must have proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand, and can enter MIQ. Travellers from some Pacific countries can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. Non-New Zealand citizens must have proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand. Any vaccine that has been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority is approved for entry into New Zealand for MIQ or quarantine-free travel. There are 33 vaccines that are approved. Note: a shorter list of vaccines are approved for proof of your vaccination status when you are in New Zealand. You must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. Your last dose must have been at least 14 days before you depart for New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a child aged 16 years and under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a medical practitioner are a refugee are a citizen of Afghanistan and you have been evacuated. You do not need to apply for an exemption. Foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand are not exempt from the requirements — they must carry evidence of being vaccinated on arrival in New Zealand. If you cannot be vaccinated for some other reason, you may be able to apply for an exemption. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can be given an exemption. Check the reasons why you could get an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health: Apply for an exemption | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- From 28 February 2022, some fully vaccinated travellers (with approved vaccinations) can self-isolate on arrival. To be eligible for self-isolation you must have been vaccinated with one of a shorter list of approved vaccines. If you are vaccinated with a government approved vaccine but haven’t had one of the types or combinations listed below, you may be able to enter via MIQ. Your vaccination status, where you are travelling from, and what Steps have commenced will determine if you can self-isolate when you arrive. Who can self-isolate when New Zealand’s borders open There are 3 ways you can meet the vaccination requirement to be eligible for self-isolation. 1. A complete course of any combination of the following Medsafe or WHO approved vaccines: --- Section Separator --- 2. Or, a complete course of any other government-approved vaccine (see the list of vaccines below) and 1 dose of Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Moderna or Janssen. 3. Or, a single dose of any other government-approved vaccine (see the list of vaccines below) and 1 dose of Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Moderna or Janssen. --- Section Separator --- U nvaccinated children aged 16 years and under can enter self-isolation on arrival if they are travelling alone or with parents or guardians who meet the vaccination requirements for self-isolation. Everyone else must be fully vaccinated. If you have a vaccine exemption or you cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons, then you may be able to enter New Zealand through MIQ. You cannot self-isolate on arrival. --- Section Separator --- When New Zealand's borders open Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ)
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's border reopens to vaccinated New Zealand citizens and residents and other eligible travellers from Australia at 11:59pm on 27 February. Reopens to New Zealand citizens and residents and other eligible travellers from the rest of the world on 13 March. MIQ will be removed for most travellers in steps over 2022, replaced by self-isolation and tests on arrival. Unvaccinated travellers, and those who do not meet New Zealand’s vaccination requirements, who are eligible to enter New Zealand will continue to enter MIQ. The following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand from Australia and self-isolate upon arrival: New Zealand citizens and residents Other eligible travellers under current border settings. Unvaccinated New Zealand citizens, and those who do not meet New Zealand’s vaccination requirements for self-isolation, who are eligible to enter New Zealand will continue to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). If you travelled to Australia from another country (excluding New Zealand), you must spend 14 days in Australia before you travel to New Zealand. Check who is eligible to travel to New Zealand under our current border settings | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Self-isolation requirements The following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand from anywhere in the world and self-isolate upon arrival: New Zealand citizens and residents Other eligible travellers under current border settings. Skilled workers earning at least 1.5x the median wage. Travellers on a working holiday scheme. Partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens and residents, provided they meet the usual visa and vaccination requirements. A family group does not need to travel to New Zealand together. Unvaccinated New Zealand citizens, and those who do not meet New Zealand’s vaccination requirements for self-isolation, who are eligible to enter New Zealand will continue to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). Check who is eligible to travel to New Zealand under our current border settings | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Self-isolation requirements The following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand from anywhere in the world and self-isolate upon arrival: Current temporary work and student visa holders with a valid visa who can still meet their visa requirements — this includes both visa holders currently offshore, and those in New Zealand who choose to travel overseas and wish to return. Up to 5,000 international students for semester 2 Self-isolation requirements The following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand and self-isolate upon arrival: All travellers from Australia. Visitors from countries who do not need a visa (visa waiver visitors). Visitors from other countries who already hold a valid visitor visa. Travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa categories. Visa waiver countries and territories | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Accredited Employer Work Visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Self-isolation requirements All visa categories will reopen from October 2022, including visitor and student visas. Self-isolation is only available for fully vaccinated travellers who are eligible to enter New Zealand. Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand You must self-isolate for 10 days in New Zealand. If New Zealand’s self-isolation period changes, such as a drop to 7 days, the self-isolation period for travellers will also change. Travellers will be given 3 rapid antigen tests at the airport, one for use on day 0/1, and one for use on day 5/6, with one extra for backup. Anyone who tests positive will need to take a PCR test at a Community Testing Centre or GP for whole genome sequencing in order to quickly identify and respond to new variants coming across the border. We will provide more information about self-isolation requirements when it is available. While you do not have to enter MIQ at each step, you must meet some health requirements, including: You must provide a negative pre-departure test. You must meet vaccination requirements. You will self-isolate for a period of time after you arrive. You must do 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) during your self-isolation period on day 0/1 and day 5/6 and declare your results. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's border reopens to vaccinated New Zealand citizens and residents and other eligible travellers from Australia at 11:59pm on 27 February. Reopens to New Zealand citizens and residents and other eligible travellers from the rest of the world on 13 March. MIQ will be removed for most travellers in steps over 2022, replaced by self-isolation and tests on arrival. Unvaccinated travellers, and those who do not meet New Zealand’s vaccination requirements, who are eligible to enter New Zealand will continue to enter MIQ. --- Section Separator --- The following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand from Australia and self-isolate upon arrival: New Zealand citizens and residents Other eligible travellers under current border settings. Unvaccinated New Zealand citizens, and those who do not meet New Zealand’s vaccination requirements for self-isolation, who are eligible to enter New Zealand will continue to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). If you travelled to Australia from another country (excluding New Zealand), you must spend 14 days in Australia before you travel to New Zealand. Check who is eligible to travel to New Zealand under our current border settings | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Self-isolation requirements --- Section Separator --- The following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand from anywhere in the world and self-isolate upon arrival: New Zealand citizens and residents Other eligible travellers under current border settings. Skilled workers earning at least 1.5x the median wage. Travellers on a working holiday scheme. Partners and dependent children of New Zealand citizens and residents, provided they meet the usual visa and vaccination requirements. A family group does not need to travel to New Zealand together. Unvaccinated New Zealand citizens, and those who do not meet New Zealand’s vaccination requirements for self-isolation, who are eligible to enter New Zealand will continue to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). Check who is eligible to travel to New Zealand under our current border settings | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Self-isolation requirements --- Section Separator --- The following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand from anywhere in the world and self-isolate upon arrival: Current temporary work and student visa holders with a valid visa who can still meet their visa requirements — this includes both visa holders currently offshore, and those in New Zealand who choose to travel overseas and wish to return. Up to 5,000 international students for semester 2 Self-isolation requirements --- Section Separator --- The following fully vaccinated people can enter New Zealand and self-isolate upon arrival: All travellers from Australia. Visitors from countries who do not need a visa (visa waiver visitors). Visitors from other countries who already hold a valid visitor visa. Travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa categories. Visa waiver countries and territories | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Accredited Employer Work Visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Self-isolation requirements --- Section Separator --- All visa categories will reopen from October 2022, including visitor and student visas. --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation is only available for fully vaccinated travellers who are eligible to enter New Zealand. Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand You must self-isolate for 10 days in New Zealand. If New Zealand’s self-isolation period changes, such as a drop to 7 days, the self-isolation period for travellers will also change. Travellers will be given 3 rapid antigen tests at the airport, one for use on day 0/1, and one for use on day 5/6, with one extra for backup. Anyone who tests positive will need to take a PCR test at a Community Testing Centre or GP for whole genome sequencing in order to quickly identify and respond to new variants coming across the border. We will provide more information about self-isolation requirements when it is available. --- Section Separator --- While you do not have to enter MIQ at each step, you must meet some health requirements, including: You must provide a negative pre-departure test. You must meet vaccination requirements. You will self-isolate for a period of time after you arrive. You must do 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) during your self-isolation period on day 0/1 and day 5/6 and declare your results. --- Section Separator --- When New Zealand's borders open Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ)
Home International travel Travel with Australia Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's borders will reopen to New Zealand citizens and residents and other eligible travellers under current border settings from Australia at 11:59pm on 27 February 2022. Anyone in Australia can travel to New Zealand by July 2022. Travellers will self-isolate on arrival, and will have to meet other health requirements. When New Zealand's borders open --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. The travel restrictions apply to almost all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. If you want to travel from Australia, you must be eligible to enter New Zealand. Check now to see if you can travel. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You need to: have the right to enter New Zealand complete a stay in MIQ — the normal rules around paying for your stay in MIQ will apply provide a negative pre-departure test, and be fully vaccinated if you are not a New Zealand citizen. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Costs for MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccinations required for non-New Zealand citizens (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you want to travel to New Zealand, you need to book your MIQ voucher when they are available. MIQ has introduced a virtual lobby for all room releases. Visit the MIQ website to find out how to participate in the virtual lobby booking system. Get your voucher through the virtual lobby (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free from anywhere in New Zealand to Australia. This began on 1 November 2021. To travel to Australia, you must: have been in Australia or New Zealand in the 14 days before your departure have proof of a negative pre-departure PCR test result within 3 days of your departure complete the Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before your departure be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 — this must be consistent with the ATAGI definition of fully vaccinated, with a Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) approved or recognised vaccine. Individual states or territories may not accept quarantine-free travellers from New Zealand. They may also have their own rules or guidance for travelling there. Check with the state government website for what you need to do. You should also check if flights are available, as they may be limited. Information for travellers by state or territory | australia.gov.au (external link) New Zealand safe travel zone | homeaffairs.gov.au (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are in Australia and have not been able to return home, we encourage you to: Sign up for email notifications for travel with Australia (external link) Register to get the latest travel advice for Australia | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) (external link) If you need information about returning home, you can call the contact centre for advice: +64 4 931 5720 if you are in Australia — rates will apply 0800 476 647 if you are in New Zealand — calls are free You can call between 8am to 10pm (NZT), 7 days a week. It is your responsibility to manage your costs for travel disruption. If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. Consular staff in New Zealand and at our consular offices in Australia cannot arrange a space in MIQ or a flight to New Zealand for you. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. Emergency consular help is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Information on travelling between New Zealand and some Pacific Islands. --- Section Separator --- Information about travelling between the Cook Islands and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You can travel from Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility (MIQ). You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility. --- Section Separator --- Information about travelling between the Cook Islands and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You can travel from Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility (MIQ). You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility.
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Cook Islands Find out about travelling quarantine-free between New Zealand and the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands began on 14 January 2022 (NZ time). There are currently no changes to the Cook Islands and New Zealand air borders. Travel Advisories will be issued if there are any changes. All travellers from New Zealand should monitor symptoms and locations of interest before travelling to the Cook Islands. Read the latest updates on the Cook Islands border | covid19.gov.ck (external link) --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel, and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in the Cook Islands. What to do before you travel, what happens while you are travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- What to do before you travel, and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in the Cook Islands. What to do before you travel, what happens while you are travelling and how to keep yourself and others safe when you arrive in New Zealand.
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands began on 14 January 2022 (NZ time). There are currently no changes to the Cook Islands and New Zealand air borders. Travel Advisories will be issued if there are any changes. All New Zealand travellers should monitor symptoms and locations of interest before travelling to the Cook Islands. Read the latest updates on the Cook Islands border | covid19.gov.ck (external link) Make sure you check the rules for the Cook Islands regularly, for example for wearing masks, recordkeeping and testing. They may change. Public health measures | covid19.gov.ck (external link) You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. If you want to travel to Aitutaki or another island after you arrive in Rarotonga, check what you need to do: Frequently asked questions about travel to the Cook Islands (external link) Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. If you want to travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-flight as a visitor, you must meet the following criteria: You must be fully vaccinated. You can travel 14 days after you have completed your primary course — for most people, this is 2 doses. You do not need to have had a booster dose. At this stage, only people aged 5 and over can travel to the Cook Islands. You must have evidence you are vaccinated. Make sure you get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate from My Covid Record — you cannot use your My Vaccine Pass for international travel: International Travel Vaccination Certificate If you cannot get vaccinated for medical reasons, apply for an exemption by emailing tmo.exemptions@cookislands.gov.ck You must have evidence of a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test result. You must have had your test done and received your results no more than 48 hours before you depart. Your test must be conducted by a Ministry of Health accredited laboratory (external link) Your evidence can be an electronic or paper copy, but a text message will not be accepted. Your evidence must have: your name your date of birth or passport number the date and time the test was conducted the name of the laboratory that carried out the test the type of test carried out, and the test result. You must spend the full 10 days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. This means you can travel from day 11 onwards. You must complete the Cook Islands travel declaration no more than 96 hours before you depart New Zealand. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You need to complete New Zealand's Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you return. It is a good idea to complete it before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) New Zealand passport holders can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for up to 90 days, as long as they have 7 days validity remaining on their passports beyond their intended stay. Australian passport holders can stay for up to 31 days, with 7 days validity remaining. Everyone else can stay for up to 31 days, with 6 months validity remaining on their passports. New Zealand passport holders can travel one-way — everyone else must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. It is your responsibility to make sure that you meet the Cook Islands immigration requirements. Frequently asked questions about entry requirements for the Cook Islands (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) There are some exceptions to these criteria for Cook Islanders, Cook Islands permanent residents, children of Cook Islands permanent residents and holders of valid Cook Islands issued immigration permits (other than visitor permits). Travel information for the Cook Islands | cookislands.travel (external link) Wear a face mask on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Health professionals may do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example, hayfever), make sure you bring a medical certificate as evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in the Cook Islands. You should be aware that you may need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Your health may be assessed when you arrive. Keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you are visiting safe from COVID-19. Public health measures | covid19.gov.ck (external link) Wash and sanitise your hands often. Cover your coughs and sneezes. Stay home or in your accommodation if you feel unwell. Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. Download the CookSafe+ app and turn on Bluetooth tracing to keep track of the people you have been near. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in 1 contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you are in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall 1 app to be able to use the other. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan if your travel is disrupted. You will need to meet any costs, and government assistance is unlikely to be available. Your airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Get travel insurance, and check your policy will cover you for COVID-19-related disruption. You may need to enter managed isolation when you return, and you may need to pay for your stay. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you are a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, check you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands. If border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — you may need to apply for a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register your travel plans at SafeTravel. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can send you important travel information to help keep you safe and provide updates about emergencies. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you are overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. If you are travelling back to New Zealand, you must: meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. It is a good idea to complete Nau Mai Rā before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands began on 14 January 2022 (NZ time). There are currently no changes to the Cook Islands and New Zealand air borders. Travel Advisories will be issued if there are any changes. All New Zealand travellers should monitor symptoms and locations of interest before travelling to the Cook Islands. Read the latest updates on the Cook Islands border | covid19.gov.ck (external link) Make sure you check the rules for the Cook Islands regularly, for example for wearing masks, recordkeeping and testing. They may change. Public health measures | covid19.gov.ck (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. If you want to travel to Aitutaki or another island after you arrive in Rarotonga, check what you need to do: Frequently asked questions about travel to the Cook Islands (external link) Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. --- Section Separator --- If you want to travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-flight as a visitor, you must meet the following criteria: You must be fully vaccinated. You can travel 14 days after you have completed your primary course — for most people, this is 2 doses. You do not need to have had a booster dose. At this stage, only people aged 5 and over can travel to the Cook Islands. You must have evidence you are vaccinated. Make sure you get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate from My Covid Record — you cannot use your My Vaccine Pass for international travel: International Travel Vaccination Certificate If you cannot get vaccinated for medical reasons, apply for an exemption by emailing tmo.exemptions@cookislands.gov.ck You must have evidence of a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test result. You must have had your test done and received your results no more than 48 hours before you depart. Your test must be conducted by a Ministry of Health accredited laboratory (external link) Your evidence can be an electronic or paper copy, but a text message will not be accepted. Your evidence must have: your name your date of birth or passport number the date and time the test was conducted the name of the laboratory that carried out the test the type of test carried out, and the test result. You must spend the full 10 days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. This means you can travel from day 11 onwards. You must complete the Cook Islands travel declaration no more than 96 hours before you depart New Zealand. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You need to complete New Zealand's Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you return. It is a good idea to complete it before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) New Zealand passport holders can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for up to 90 days, as long as they have 7 days validity remaining on their passports beyond their intended stay. Australian passport holders can stay for up to 31 days, with 7 days validity remaining. Everyone else can stay for up to 31 days, with 6 months validity remaining on their passports. New Zealand passport holders can travel one-way — everyone else must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. It is your responsibility to make sure that you meet the Cook Islands immigration requirements. Frequently asked questions about entry requirements for the Cook Islands (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) There are some exceptions to these criteria for Cook Islanders, Cook Islands permanent residents, children of Cook Islands permanent residents and holders of valid Cook Islands issued immigration permits (other than visitor permits). Travel information for the Cook Islands | cookislands.travel (external link) --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Health professionals may do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example, hayfever), make sure you bring a medical certificate as evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in the Cook Islands. You should be aware that you may need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Your health may be assessed when you arrive. --- Section Separator --- Keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you are visiting safe from COVID-19. Public health measures | covid19.gov.ck (external link) Wash and sanitise your hands often. Cover your coughs and sneezes. Stay home or in your accommodation if you feel unwell. Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. Download the CookSafe+ app and turn on Bluetooth tracing to keep track of the people you have been near. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in 1 contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you are in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall 1 app to be able to use the other. --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan if your travel is disrupted. You will need to meet any costs, and government assistance is unlikely to be available. Your airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Get travel insurance, and check your policy will cover you for COVID-19-related disruption. You may need to enter managed isolation when you return, and you may need to pay for your stay. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you are a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, check you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands. If border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — you may need to apply for a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register your travel plans at SafeTravel. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can send you important travel information to help keep you safe and provide updates about emergencies. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you are overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling back to New Zealand, you must: meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. It is a good idea to complete Nau Mai Rā before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu Niue
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands began on 14 January 2022 (NZ time). There are currently no changes to the Cook Islands and New Zealand air borders. Travel Advisories will be issued if there are any changes. All New Zealand travellers should monitor symptoms and locations of interest before travelling to the Cook Islands. Read the latest updates on the Cook Islands border | covid19.gov.ck (external link) New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back on a scheduled flight. You cannot fly if you have been at a location of interest in New Zealand or if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Before you travel: make sure you follow all health restrictions in the Cook Islands Check the Cook Islands government website (external link) complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. If your travel plans have changed, please fill out the declaration again. Call Te Marae Ora for advice on 57481, or 57482, or 57486, or 56199. You will need to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate for 14 days before you can return to New Zealand. You can travel through New Zealand to get home. Life at Red You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Travellers must meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must be fully vaccinated (see information below). You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you leave the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. You must be fully vaccinated if you are not a New Zealand citizen. Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens, and so do not need to show proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Wear a face mask on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in New Zealand. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face mask at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face mask in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. You will see health professionals stationed around the airport, who will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you are in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you have been. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you have visited. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face mask on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face mask in many public places in New Zealand. Some people do not need to wear a face mask. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you are offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you are helping keep everyone safe. Make sure you know what to do at different traffic light settings: Traffic lights You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. This website (Covid19.govt.nz), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) How to travel back to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands began on 14 January 2022 (NZ time). There are currently no changes to the Cook Islands and New Zealand air borders. Travel Advisories will be issued if there are any changes. All New Zealand travellers should monitor symptoms and locations of interest before travelling to the Cook Islands. Read the latest updates on the Cook Islands border | covid19.gov.ck (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back on a scheduled flight. You cannot fly if you have been at a location of interest in New Zealand or if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Before you travel: make sure you follow all health restrictions in the Cook Islands Check the Cook Islands government website (external link) complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. If your travel plans have changed, please fill out the declaration again. Call Te Marae Ora for advice on 57481, or 57482, or 57486, or 56199. You will need to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate for 14 days before you can return to New Zealand. You can travel through New Zealand to get home. Life at Red --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Travellers must meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. --- Section Separator --- To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must be fully vaccinated (see information below). You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you leave the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. You must be fully vaccinated if you are not a New Zealand citizen. Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens, and so do not need to show proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in New Zealand. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face mask at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face mask in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. You will see health professionals stationed around the airport, who will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you are in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you have been. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you have visited. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face mask on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face mask in many public places in New Zealand. Some people do not need to wear a face mask. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you are offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you are helping keep everyone safe. Make sure you know what to do at different traffic light settings: Traffic lights --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- This website (Covid19.govt.nz), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to travel back to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu Niue
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu --- Section Separator --- You can travel one-way from Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. You are responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to your country is delayed. Travellers from Samoa, Tonga, Vanuatu and Tokelau can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. Check official websites for information about Pacific Island government departure requirements. People who are eligible to enter New Zealand from Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu are: New Zealand citizens holders of a New Zealand resident visa holders of a critical purpose visa. List of critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Requirements for Australian citizens and permanent residents | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand’s transit requirements remain the same. Transit passengers | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following conditions: Travellers coming from Tokelau need to spend 14 full days before their departure in Tokelau, Samoa or New Zealand. Travellers from Samoa, Tonga and Vanuatu need to spend 14 full days before their date of departure in either your country of departure or New Zealand. This means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You must be fully vaccinated, unless you are New Zealand citizen. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Due to the low risk in these countries, you do not need to provide a negative test before departing for New Zealand. All travellers must complete a travel declaration form, Nau Mai Rā, for New Zealand's Ministry of Health. Complete Nau Mai Rā (external link) If you feel unwell at your departure airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, a health professional will assess you when you arrive. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility. When you arrive in New Zealand, you will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on quarantine-free arrivals. You must maintain 2 metres physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the New Zealand airport who did not arrive from your country. You must wear a face mask while in the airport in New Zealand. When you arrive in New Zealand, you should be aware of any restrictions on domestic travel and activities. What to do at the traffic light settings Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face mask on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at the different traffic light settings: Traffic lights If you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. Download an A6 fact sheet about quarantine-free travel to New Zealand in English and other languages: Bislama [PDF, 469 KB] English [PDF, 1.3 MB] Gagana Samoa | Samoan [PDF, 468 KB] Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan [PDF, 564 KB] Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori [PDF, 576 KB] --- Section Separator --- You can travel one-way from Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. You are responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to your country is delayed. --- Section Separator --- Travellers from Samoa, Tonga, Vanuatu and Tokelau can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. Check official websites for information about Pacific Island government departure requirements. --- Section Separator --- People who are eligible to enter New Zealand from Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu are: New Zealand citizens holders of a New Zealand resident visa holders of a critical purpose visa. List of critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Requirements for Australian citizens and permanent residents | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand’s transit requirements remain the same. Transit passengers | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following conditions: Travellers coming from Tokelau need to spend 14 full days before their departure in Tokelau, Samoa or New Zealand. Travellers from Samoa, Tonga and Vanuatu need to spend 14 full days before their date of departure in either your country of departure or New Zealand. This means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You must be fully vaccinated, unless you are New Zealand citizen. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Due to the low risk in these countries, you do not need to provide a negative test before departing for New Zealand. All travellers must complete a travel declaration form, Nau Mai Rā, for New Zealand's Ministry of Health. Complete Nau Mai Rā (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell at your departure airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, a health professional will assess you when you arrive. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility. When you arrive in New Zealand, you will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on quarantine-free arrivals. You must maintain 2 metres physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the New Zealand airport who did not arrive from your country. You must wear a face mask while in the airport in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- When you arrive in New Zealand, you should be aware of any restrictions on domestic travel and activities. What to do at the traffic light settings --- Section Separator --- Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face mask on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at the different traffic light settings: Traffic lights --- Section Separator --- If you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. --- Section Separator --- Download an A6 fact sheet about quarantine-free travel to New Zealand in English and other languages: Bislama [PDF, 469 KB] English [PDF, 1.3 MB] Gagana Samoa | Samoan [PDF, 468 KB] Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan [PDF, 564 KB] Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori [PDF, 576 KB] --- Section Separator --- Cook Islands Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu Niue
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Niue --- Section Separator --- Information in Niuean about quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand. Fenoga nakai nofo puipui mai Niue ki Niu Silani | Quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. If you are travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from Niue are likely to be New Zealand citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) If you are in Niue and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following conditions: You have not been overseas outside of Niue and New Zealand in the past 14 days. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. You must maintain 2 metres physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the New Zealand airport who did not arrive from Niue. You must wear a face mask while in the airport in New Zealand. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You must be fully vaccinated, unless you are New Zealand citizen. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Departures from Niue International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You are encouraged to wear a face mask at the airport. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face masks, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from Niue. If you feel unwell at Niue International Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from Niue do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Niue arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from Niue. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from Niue. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Niue arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to Niue is delayed. If you are travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free from Niue, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Health officials can use the information to contact you if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. Remember to: Scan QR codes wherever you go. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the NZ COVID Tracer app — this helps keep track of the people you have been near. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be given to you when you arrive, or you can download and print one here: Haku tohi Muitua NZ COVID | My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (Niuean) [PDF, 668 KB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face mask on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face mask on public transport. We encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different traffic lights: Traffic lights If you travel from Niue to New Zealand and you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue, and the numbers of people entering Niue will be capped at 30 passengers per fortnight. To get approval to travel, you must do the following: Be eligible to travel to Niue. Meet conditions set by the Niuean Government, including having been in New Zealand for 14 days before you depart. If you are going to enter 14 days of quarantine in Niue, you must provide 1 negative COVID-19 test result within 4 working days of your scheduled departure. If you are applying for 14 days of self-isolation, you must provide 2 negative COVID-19 test results — 4 working days before your scheduled departure, and 9 days before that. Complete the exit health clearance process at Auckland International Airport. Niue Health will confirm the dates of your COVID-19 tests with you when your travel is approved. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu --- Section Separator --- Information in Niuean about quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand. Fenoga nakai nofo puipui mai Niue ki Niu Silani | Quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from Niue are likely to be New Zealand citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are in Niue and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following conditions: You have not been overseas outside of Niue and New Zealand in the past 14 days. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. You must maintain 2 metres physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the New Zealand airport who did not arrive from Niue. You must wear a face mask while in the airport in New Zealand. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You must be fully vaccinated, unless you are New Zealand citizen. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Departures from Niue International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You are encouraged to wear a face mask at the airport. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face masks, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from Niue. If you feel unwell at Niue International Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. --- Section Separator --- Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from Niue do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Niue arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from Niue. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from Niue. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Niue arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. --- Section Separator --- You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to Niue is delayed. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free from Niue, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Health officials can use the information to contact you if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. Remember to: Scan QR codes wherever you go. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the NZ COVID Tracer app — this helps keep track of the people you have been near. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be given to you when you arrive, or you can download and print one here: Haku tohi Muitua NZ COVID | My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (Niuean) [PDF, 668 KB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face mask on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face mask on public transport. We encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different traffic lights: Traffic lights --- Section Separator --- If you travel from Niue to New Zealand and you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. --- Section Separator --- Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue, and the numbers of people entering Niue will be capped at 30 passengers per fortnight. To get approval to travel, you must do the following: Be eligible to travel to Niue. Meet conditions set by the Niuean Government, including having been in New Zealand for 14 days before you depart. If you are going to enter 14 days of quarantine in Niue, you must provide 1 negative COVID-19 test result within 4 working days of your scheduled departure. If you are applying for 14 days of self-isolation, you must provide 2 negative COVID-19 test results — 4 working days before your scheduled departure, and 9 days before that. Complete the exit health clearance process at Auckland International Airport. Niue Health will confirm the dates of your COVID-19 tests with you when your travel is approved. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu --- Section Separator --- Cook Islands Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu Niue
Home Isolation and care Care in the community Aotearoa New Zealand is now in the traffic light system, which has a new approach to how we manage COVID-19 in the community. --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19 are likely to have mild to moderate illness. They will be able to self-isolate and fully recover in their own home, or in suitable alternative accommodation, with support from local healthcare providers. Care in the community will provide you tailored support to manage your illness and reduce the chance of transmission to your family and your community. It is a model for people with COVID-19 and health providers to make sure the right support is provided and the whole whānau is prepared. More information will be available on this page as it becomes available. --- Section Separator --- Everyone, whether you are vaccinated or unvaccinated, should prepare for what you need to do if you get COVID-19. Being ready for getting COVID-19 is about making sure you and your household have a plan and know what to do. It will mean your whānau and community can help each other if needed. Be prepared for COVID-19 COVID-19 Readiness Checklist [PDF, 195 KB] --- Section Separator --- Anyone who has symptoms of COVID-19 should get a test, even if you are vaccinated. If you test positive, it is nothing to be embarrassed about. COVID-19 does not care who it infects. After you test positive, several things will happen. A health professional will contact you about your positive result and a team will start working on contact tracing. You will get a call to discuss where you will isolate and provide you with other things you need to know about being positive. When you should get a test How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. You will get instructions and advice directly from a public health official that is specific to your individual situation and your needs. What to expect when self-isolating at home --- Section Separator --- If you test positive, it is important you and your household gets the right care and support to recover and get back to living a normal life. When you are told you need to isolate, you will be asked if you need any support or help. Many people will be able to look after themselves or have support from friends and whānau. However, some people may need things like food and groceries. The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) is coordinating support, and connecting people with the right service to help them. Getting support if you have COVID-19 Financial support Community Care support if you get COVID-19 [PDF, 227 KB]
Home Isolation and care Getting extra support if you have COVID-19 or are self-isolating --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can co-ordinate extra support for you if you are self-isolating because you have COVID-19 or are identified as a Close Contact. You can request support with: getting access to food and essential items mobile data so you can keep in contact with essential services, friends and whānau getting support for personal care or daily tasks talking to your employer if you are worried about your leave or pay getting mental health support, or support with family or sexual violence. This support could be from a community organisation, a government agency, a marae-based service or support established by iwi. Apply for support while you are self-isolating (external link) You can also call the COVID-19 Welfare phone line on 0800 512 337 , 7 days a week. If a community organisation is supporting you, please contact them directly. It is important that you answer all calls when you are self-isolating, as your healthcare provider, MSD or another service may be trying to contact you. Keep in contact with your friends and whānau, your healthcare provider, and your COVID-19 welfare guide if you have one. This means they can: check how you are feeling monitor your health check if you need basic supplies like food or medicines. We all need food and essential items such as medicine, so please do not try to go without. There are plenty of ways to get this to you. Talk to your family, whānau, friends, iwi and neighbours to see if they can drop off items at your door. If you are able to, you can use food delivery services such as supermarket home delivery, or any other delivery service. Remember to ask people to leave deliveries outside your home. They could text or ring the doorbell to let you know it is there. Some people may not feel comfortable asking for help, but it is best for you and the community if you do not try and face self-isolation alone. If you need medicines, talk to your doctor or your local pharmacy. They will arrange getting your medicines safely delivered to your home. Looking after your tamariki while you are self-isolating can be hard. During the school year, talk with your tamariki's school or childcare centre about whether they can do online learning or provide resources while they are self-isolating. They may also be able to help with devices. Ask your friends and whānau if they have games, books or puzzles your tamariki could use while they are self-isolating. It is important you look after yourself and reach out for help or support when you or your tamariki need it. When you are told you need to self-isolate, you will be asked about your living situation to find out if it is a suitable place for you to stay and self-isolate. If you are waiting for COVID-19 test results or you have been told to self-isolate, and you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for financial support so that you can continue to get paid. While you are waiting for your test result, your employer may be able to apply for the Short-term Absence Payment. If you test positive for COVID-19 or have been told to self-isolate your employer may be able to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Financial support If you need personal care or help with daily tasks, your healthcare provider and COVID-19 welfare guide will work together to make sure your needs are met. There are a range of people to talk to if you need it. Where to get help | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) It is important you and your whānau are safe while you are self-isolating. If you are worried or just want to talk: call 111 if you or someone else is in immediate danger of being harmed or may harm themselves call Women's Refuge on 0800 733 843 , for advice and support when you are dealing with violence in your life call the Elder Abuse Helpline on 0800 32 668 65 , for older people if they, or someone they know, are experiencing elder abuse. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can co-ordinate extra support for you if you are self-isolating because you have COVID-19 or are identified as a Close Contact. You can request support with: getting access to food and essential items mobile data so you can keep in contact with essential services, friends and whānau getting support for personal care or daily tasks talking to your employer if you are worried about your leave or pay getting mental health support, or support with family or sexual violence. This support could be from a community organisation, a government agency, a marae-based service or support established by iwi. Apply for support while you are self-isolating (external link) You can also call the COVID-19 Welfare phone line on 0800 512 337 , 7 days a week. If a community organisation is supporting you, please contact them directly. It is important that you answer all calls when you are self-isolating, as your healthcare provider, MSD or another service may be trying to contact you. --- Section Separator --- Keep in contact with your friends and whānau, your healthcare provider, and your COVID-19 welfare guide if you have one. This means they can: check how you are feeling monitor your health check if you need basic supplies like food or medicines. --- Section Separator --- We all need food and essential items such as medicine, so please do not try to go without. There are plenty of ways to get this to you. Talk to your family, whānau, friends, iwi and neighbours to see if they can drop off items at your door. If you are able to, you can use food delivery services such as supermarket home delivery, or any other delivery service. Remember to ask people to leave deliveries outside your home. They could text or ring the doorbell to let you know it is there. Some people may not feel comfortable asking for help, but it is best for you and the community if you do not try and face self-isolation alone. If you need medicines, talk to your doctor or your local pharmacy. They will arrange getting your medicines safely delivered to your home. --- Section Separator --- Looking after your tamariki while you are self-isolating can be hard. During the school year, talk with your tamariki's school or childcare centre about whether they can do online learning or provide resources while they are self-isolating. They may also be able to help with devices. Ask your friends and whānau if they have games, books or puzzles your tamariki could use while they are self-isolating. It is important you look after yourself and reach out for help or support when you or your tamariki need it. --- Section Separator --- When you are told you need to self-isolate, you will be asked about your living situation to find out if it is a suitable place for you to stay and self-isolate. --- Section Separator --- If you are waiting for COVID-19 test results or you have been told to self-isolate, and you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for financial support so that you can continue to get paid. While you are waiting for your test result, your employer may be able to apply for the Short-term Absence Payment. If you test positive for COVID-19 or have been told to self-isolate your employer may be able to apply for the Leave Support Scheme. Financial support --- Section Separator --- If you need personal care or help with daily tasks, your healthcare provider and COVID-19 welfare guide will work together to make sure your needs are met. --- Section Separator --- There are a range of people to talk to if you need it. Where to get help | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- It is important you and your whānau are safe while you are self-isolating. If you are worried or just want to talk: call 111 if you or someone else is in immediate danger of being harmed or may harm themselves call Women's Refuge on 0800 733 843 , for advice and support when you are dealing with violence in your life call the Elder Abuse Helpline on 0800 32 668 65 , for older people if they, or someone they know, are experiencing elder abuse. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 How to self-isolate What to expect if you go into managed isolation What to expect after you have had COVID-19 Getting extra support if you have COVID-19 or are self-isolating Care in the community Financial support
Home Isolation and care How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- You will need to self-isolate from others when you: are positive for COVID-19 are identified as a Close Contact of someone who is positive for COVID-19 have returned from overseas. Self-isolation can be in your home or suitable alternative accommodation. This could be another property that you have access to, or are provided, that is more suitable for self-isolation than where you usually live. You can self-isolate there instead. You will need to isolate for at least 14 days while you recover from COVID-19 and be symptom-free for 72 hours. If you test positive for COVID-19 You need to self-isolate from others for 10 days from your last contact with the person who was positive for COVID-19. Close Contacts Travellers will self-isolate for 10 days . If New Zealand’s self-isolation period changes, such as a drop to 7 days, the self-isolation period for travellers will also change. When New Zealand borders open If you need help or financial support, there are several options available while you are self-isolating. Financial support Getting support if you have COVID-19 or are self-isolating Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. You will get instructions and advice directly from a public health official that is specific to your individual situation and your needs. Stay home or at your accommodation. Do not go to work, school or public places — even to exercise. Limit contact with others you live with — for example, sleep by yourself and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, you should stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face mask that covers your nose and mouth when near others. Do not share items with others in your household — for example, dishes, toothbrushes, and towels. Do your own laundry. Do not have visitors in your home. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes items frequently touched like door handles, light switches and phones. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. If you need food, prescriptions or essential items get friends or family to leave them on your doorstep, or get supplies delivered. Most people with COVID-19 are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and be able to fully recover in their own home. If you test positive for COVID-19, your doctor or a health professional will call you to discuss: what it means to have COVID-19 and what you need to do all the people you have had contact with recently if you will move into a quarantine facility or self-isolate at home. You will need to isolate for at least 14 days while you recover from COVID-19 and be symptom-free for 72 hours. You can isolate in your home or suitable alternative accommodation. This could be another property that you have access to, or are provided, that is more suitable for self-isolation than where you usually live. You can self-isolate there instead. While you are isolating at home, you will have a dedicated contact person check up on you and make sure that you and your whānau are safe. It is normal to feel nervous or unsure about what the next few weeks will look like. Household members will need to remain in isolation for at least 10 days after the positive case has been released from isolation. This means household members will need to be in isolation for longer than the positive case. Household contacts are considered Close Contacts. What Close Contacts need to do If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. In some cases, people with COVID-19 become very unwell and need to be admitted to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you had a more severe illness and require hospital care, you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis by a health professional. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. Pay attention to how you are feeling and look out for worsening symptoms. If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. Care in the Community: Self-isolating timeline [PDF, 90 KB] It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. Looking after your mental wellbeing After you have recovered from COVID-19 and are released from isolation by a health professional, there are a few things you should do. What to expect after you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You will need to self-isolate from others when you: are positive for COVID-19 are identified as a Close Contact of someone who is positive for COVID-19 have returned from overseas. Self-isolation can be in your home or suitable alternative accommodation. This could be another property that you have access to, or are provided, that is more suitable for self-isolation than where you usually live. You can self-isolate there instead. --- Section Separator --- You will need to isolate for at least 14 days while you recover from COVID-19 and be symptom-free for 72 hours. If you test positive for COVID-19 You need to self-isolate from others for 10 days from your last contact with the person who was positive for COVID-19. Close Contacts Travellers will self-isolate for 10 days . If New Zealand’s self-isolation period changes, such as a drop to 7 days, the self-isolation period for travellers will also change. When New Zealand borders open --- Section Separator --- If you need help or financial support, there are several options available while you are self-isolating. Financial support Getting support if you have COVID-19 or are self-isolating --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. You will get instructions and advice directly from a public health official that is specific to your individual situation and your needs. Stay home or at your accommodation. Do not go to work, school or public places — even to exercise. Limit contact with others you live with — for example, sleep by yourself and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, you should stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face mask that covers your nose and mouth when near others. Do not share items with others in your household — for example, dishes, toothbrushes, and towels. Do your own laundry. Do not have visitors in your home. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes items frequently touched like door handles, light switches and phones. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. If you need food, prescriptions or essential items get friends or family to leave them on your doorstep, or get supplies delivered. --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19 are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and be able to fully recover in their own home. If you test positive for COVID-19, your doctor or a health professional will call you to discuss: what it means to have COVID-19 and what you need to do all the people you have had contact with recently if you will move into a quarantine facility or self-isolate at home. You will need to isolate for at least 14 days while you recover from COVID-19 and be symptom-free for 72 hours. You can isolate in your home or suitable alternative accommodation. This could be another property that you have access to, or are provided, that is more suitable for self-isolation than where you usually live. You can self-isolate there instead. While you are isolating at home, you will have a dedicated contact person check up on you and make sure that you and your whānau are safe. It is normal to feel nervous or unsure about what the next few weeks will look like. Household members will need to remain in isolation for at least 10 days after the positive case has been released from isolation. This means household members will need to be in isolation for longer than the positive case. Household contacts are considered Close Contacts. What Close Contacts need to do --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. In some cases, people with COVID-19 become very unwell and need to be admitted to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you had a more severe illness and require hospital care, you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis by a health professional. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. --- Section Separator --- Pay attention to how you are feeling and look out for worsening symptoms. If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. Care in the Community: Self-isolating timeline [PDF, 90 KB] It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. Looking after your mental wellbeing After you have recovered from COVID-19 and are released from isolation by a health professional, there are a few things you should do. What to expect after you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 How to self-isolate What to expect if you go into managed isolation What to expect after you have had COVID-19 Getting extra support if you have COVID-19 or are self-isolating Care in the community Financial support
Home Isolation and care If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 your doctor or a health professional will be in contact with you. They will explain what it means to have COVID-19 and what you need to do. It is nothing to be embarrassed about — it can happen to anyone. COVID-19 does not care who it infects. From this point on: you must stay at home or your accommodation, unless a health professional tells you otherwise have your phone with you and answer all calls. You will need to provide details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. This is to help prevent further spread of COVID-19. This will be a call from a contact tracer. Their job is to find out where you might have caught it, and who else you might have exposed to the virus. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app, they will ask you to share your digital diary and talk you through the process. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, the contact tracer will ask if you want to send a Bluetooth alert. If you agree, they will talk you through the process. How contact tracing works Everyone who tests positive for COVID-19 and everyone who lives with them and their close contacts will need to isolate from the community to help stop the spread of the virus. You will get a call to discuss whether you are well set-up to isolate at home. If it is unsuitable, other options are available — this could be because of how severe your symptoms are or whether you are at-risk for complications. There are 2 ways to isolate, either: at home (or in suitable alternative accommodation) in a managed isolation facility. If you are very unwell, you will receive hospital care. What to expect when self-isolating at home What to expect if you go into managed isolation Anyone you live with will need to stay home for the entire time you and anyone else in your household who tests positive are isolating. Household members of a COVID-19 case are Close Contacts and will need to get a series of tests. Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 Once the last case has been released from isolation, the rest of your household will have a further 10 days in isolation. This means they will need to isolate for longer than you. If someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, those who have not tested positive within the last 6 months will have their isolation period extended. If you are travelling around the country and you test positive for COVID-19, there is a risk that you may not be able to return safely to your home to isolate. You will only be able to return home if you or a whānau member are able to drive. You will need to prepare for the possibility you will get COVID-19 while away from home before you go on holiday. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. You will have support from local healthcare providers to meet your health, welfare and wellbeing needs while you are recovering from COVID-19. A 24-hour contact phone number will be available for health support, and you will get a dedicated contact person to check on you and your whānau. Contacts for health support may differ across the country. Your point of contact may be an individual or a team from your general practice, primary care provider or from a local community health service. Your contact person will tell you how often they will be in contact to check on you. If you need medication, contact your doctor or your local community pharmacy who can get it safely delivered to your home. You may go into a MIQ facility which can meet your health and welfare needs and to prevent the risk of spreading COVID-19 in your whānau and community. Facility staff, including a dedicated health team, will check on your physical and mental health during your stay. The health team will confirm your treatment details with you – these are on a case-by-case basis. In some cases, people with COVID-19 become very unwell and need to go to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. What to expect after you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 your doctor or a health professional will be in contact with you. They will explain what it means to have COVID-19 and what you need to do. It is nothing to be embarrassed about — it can happen to anyone. COVID-19 does not care who it infects. From this point on: you must stay at home or your accommodation, unless a health professional tells you otherwise have your phone with you and answer all calls. --- Section Separator --- You will need to provide details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. This is to help prevent further spread of COVID-19. This will be a call from a contact tracer. Their job is to find out where you might have caught it, and who else you might have exposed to the virus. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app, they will ask you to share your digital diary and talk you through the process. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, the contact tracer will ask if you want to send a Bluetooth alert. If you agree, they will talk you through the process. How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Everyone who tests positive for COVID-19 and everyone who lives with them and their close contacts will need to isolate from the community to help stop the spread of the virus. You will get a call to discuss whether you are well set-up to isolate at home. If it is unsuitable, other options are available — this could be because of how severe your symptoms are or whether you are at-risk for complications. There are 2 ways to isolate, either: at home (or in suitable alternative accommodation) in a managed isolation facility. If you are very unwell, you will receive hospital care. What to expect when self-isolating at home What to expect if you go into managed isolation --- Section Separator --- Anyone you live with will need to stay home for the entire time you and anyone else in your household who tests positive are isolating. Household members of a COVID-19 case are Close Contacts and will need to get a series of tests. Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 Once the last case has been released from isolation, the rest of your household will have a further 10 days in isolation. This means they will need to isolate for longer than you. If someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, those who have not tested positive within the last 6 months will have their isolation period extended. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling around the country and you test positive for COVID-19, there is a risk that you may not be able to return safely to your home to isolate. You will only be able to return home if you or a whānau member are able to drive. You will need to prepare for the possibility you will get COVID-19 while away from home before you go on holiday. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. You will have support from local healthcare providers to meet your health, welfare and wellbeing needs while you are recovering from COVID-19. A 24-hour contact phone number will be available for health support, and you will get a dedicated contact person to check on you and your whānau. Contacts for health support may differ across the country. Your point of contact may be an individual or a team from your general practice, primary care provider or from a local community health service. Your contact person will tell you how often they will be in contact to check on you. If you need medication, contact your doctor or your local community pharmacy who can get it safely delivered to your home. You may go into a MIQ facility which can meet your health and welfare needs and to prevent the risk of spreading COVID-19 in your whānau and community. Facility staff, including a dedicated health team, will check on your physical and mental health during your stay. The health team will confirm your treatment details with you – these are on a case-by-case basis. In some cases, people with COVID-19 become very unwell and need to go to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. --- Section Separator --- What to expect after you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling away from home If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling away from home How to self-isolate What to expect if you go into managed isolation What to expect after you have had COVID-19 Getting extra support if you have COVID-19 or are self-isolating Care in the community Financial support
Home Isolation and care If you test positive for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling away from home --- Section Separator --- While vaccination is highly effective, it is still possible to get COVID-19. You may get it while you are away from home on holiday or for work, even if you are following the rules. You should prepare for what you may need to do if this happens. Make a plan for how to get home to isolate if you get COVID-19, if you can travel there safely. You will only be able to return home if you or someone you are travelling with are able to drive. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you will need to think about: the route you might take how you would get fuel — you should only stop at a contactless petrol station supplies you might need for the journey home to reduce the number of stops you make, including supplies to treat COVID-19 symptoms. The people you are travelling with, whether it is friends or whānau, will need to be prepared for what might happen. You should talk through the plan together. If you have travelled to your destination on public transport, for example ferry or plane, it is likely you will need to stay at that location for your isolation period. Common symptoms of COVID-19 are like those found with illnesses such as a cold or flu. If you have these symptoms when you are on holiday or away from home, it is important that you get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home to get tested. If you become unwell or have been exposed to COVID-19 while you are away from home, you should: call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and what to do isolate at your accommodation if you are symptomatic, until you get your test result. Find a COVID-19 testing location | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) COVID-19 symptoms Close Contacts Casual and Casual Plus Contacts Many testing centres will be closed on public holidays. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or check Healthpoint for testing centre opening hours. Find a COVID-19 testing location | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) A health professional will be in contact with you. You will be able to discuss with them what you need to do and whether it is safe for you to travel home. You will not be able to: take a commercial flight home do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. If you need urgent medical help or are having difficulties breathing, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19. If you test positive for COVID-19 You will need to tell the owner or operator of your holiday accommodation whether you are a contact of a case or if you have tested positive. This will allow them to make sure the property is safe for the next booking. If you are a contact and your test is negative, you should tell your accommodation provider you are not a COVID-19 case. If you are travelling around the country, there is a risk that you may not be able to return safely to your home to isolate. You will have to remain in place. You will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. If you are unable to get home, you will need to think about: getting someone to look after your house care for your pets taking things with you to help with boredom while isolating making sure you have enough money to cover an extended time away from home have a list of medical information — include everyone’s names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions, and medication or medical supplies each person needs. If you are unable to return home safely and you can isolate at your accommodation, you will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines: What to expect from self-isolation You will only be able to return home if you or someone you are travelling with are able to drive. You must not use public transport or undertake any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. You must drive directly to your home, making as few stops as possible. You need to minimise your contact with others. Remember to: scan everywhere you go wear a face mask when not in the car maintain physical distancing in public spaces. If you are borrowing or renting a car, you will need to tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle thoroughly afterwards. Once you are home, a health professional will tell you what to do, and you will be able to follow the self-isolation guidance. Anyone travelling with you is a close contact and will need to know what to do: What to expect from self-isolation Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- While vaccination is highly effective, it is still possible to get COVID-19. You may get it while you are away from home on holiday or for work, even if you are following the rules. You should prepare for what you may need to do if this happens. Make a plan for how to get home to isolate if you get COVID-19, if you can travel there safely. You will only be able to return home if you or someone you are travelling with are able to drive. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you will need to think about: the route you might take how you would get fuel — you should only stop at a contactless petrol station supplies you might need for the journey home to reduce the number of stops you make, including supplies to treat COVID-19 symptoms. The people you are travelling with, whether it is friends or whānau, will need to be prepared for what might happen. You should talk through the plan together. If you have travelled to your destination on public transport, for example ferry or plane, it is likely you will need to stay at that location for your isolation period. --- Section Separator --- Common symptoms of COVID-19 are like those found with illnesses such as a cold or flu. If you have these symptoms when you are on holiday or away from home, it is important that you get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home to get tested. If you become unwell or have been exposed to COVID-19 while you are away from home, you should: call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and what to do isolate at your accommodation if you are symptomatic, until you get your test result. Find a COVID-19 testing location | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) COVID-19 symptoms Close Contacts Casual and Casual Plus Contacts --- Section Separator --- Many testing centres will be closed on public holidays. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or check Healthpoint for testing centre opening hours. Find a COVID-19 testing location | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- A health professional will be in contact with you. You will be able to discuss with them what you need to do and whether it is safe for you to travel home. You will not be able to: take a commercial flight home do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. If you need urgent medical help or are having difficulties breathing, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19. If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You will need to tell the owner or operator of your holiday accommodation whether you are a contact of a case or if you have tested positive. This will allow them to make sure the property is safe for the next booking. If you are a contact and your test is negative, you should tell your accommodation provider you are not a COVID-19 case. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling around the country, there is a risk that you may not be able to return safely to your home to isolate. You will have to remain in place. You will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. If you are unable to get home, you will need to think about: getting someone to look after your house care for your pets taking things with you to help with boredom while isolating making sure you have enough money to cover an extended time away from home have a list of medical information — include everyone’s names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions, and medication or medical supplies each person needs. If you are unable to return home safely and you can isolate at your accommodation, you will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines: What to expect from self-isolation --- Section Separator --- You will only be able to return home if you or someone you are travelling with are able to drive. You must not use public transport or undertake any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. You must drive directly to your home, making as few stops as possible. You need to minimise your contact with others. Remember to: scan everywhere you go wear a face mask when not in the car maintain physical distancing in public spaces. If you are borrowing or renting a car, you will need to tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle thoroughly afterwards. Once you are home, a health professional will tell you what to do, and you will be able to follow the self-isolation guidance. Anyone travelling with you is a close contact and will need to know what to do: What to expect from self-isolation Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling away from home
Home Isolation and care What to expect after you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Most transmission of COVID-19 occurs through close contact with an infected person when they cough or sneeze. Although less likely, infection can still occur if someone touches a contaminated object or surface, then touches their mouth, nose, or eyes. The virus can survive on surfaces for a limited time. But it has a fragile outer membrane making it easy to kill through effective cleaning and disinfection. Where there has been a confirmed case of COVID-19, the virus is more likely to be found on surfaces. All surfaces should be cleaned and disinfected. You should wait at least 12 hours before cleaning and disinfecting your home after you or someone in your household has recovered from COVID-19. You can use regular household cleaning products like detergents or bleach to clean your home. Clean surfaces with detergent first, then use a disinfectant. You can vacuum as usual. Make sure you: wear gloves when cleaning follow the safety directions on the product label disinfect high touch surfaces such as door handles, light switches and remote controls open windows as much as possible to allow ventilation wash all dishes that you used while isolating — use warm water and detergent or put them in the dishwasher clean cloths and mop heads after you use them dispose of all rubbish including used tissues and masks. Start with higher surfaces and work your way down so that any dust or dirt that falls to the ground is swept up. Clean surfaces that are less frequently touched first. Avoid going from a room that is not clean to one that is clean to prevent cross-contamination. To reduce the possibility of spreading the virus through the air, do not shake dirty laundry. Wash clothing and bedding according to the manufacturer’s instructions – use warm water and dry them completely. General cleaning and disinfection advice | health.govt.nz (external link) You must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag. This bag can then go into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, we recommend still putting all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag. That bag can then go into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. It is best to wait at least 4 weeks after you recover. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is rare, especially when you are vaccinated, but it is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. But some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. For support with management and treatment of Long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about Long COVID on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most transmission of COVID-19 occurs through close contact with an infected person when they cough or sneeze. Although less likely, infection can still occur if someone touches a contaminated object or surface, then touches their mouth, nose, or eyes. The virus can survive on surfaces for a limited time. But it has a fragile outer membrane making it easy to kill through effective cleaning and disinfection. Where there has been a confirmed case of COVID-19, the virus is more likely to be found on surfaces. All surfaces should be cleaned and disinfected. You should wait at least 12 hours before cleaning and disinfecting your home after you or someone in your household has recovered from COVID-19. You can use regular household cleaning products like detergents or bleach to clean your home. Clean surfaces with detergent first, then use a disinfectant. You can vacuum as usual. Make sure you: wear gloves when cleaning follow the safety directions on the product label disinfect high touch surfaces such as door handles, light switches and remote controls open windows as much as possible to allow ventilation wash all dishes that you used while isolating — use warm water and detergent or put them in the dishwasher clean cloths and mop heads after you use them dispose of all rubbish including used tissues and masks. Start with higher surfaces and work your way down so that any dust or dirt that falls to the ground is swept up. Clean surfaces that are less frequently touched first. Avoid going from a room that is not clean to one that is clean to prevent cross-contamination. To reduce the possibility of spreading the virus through the air, do not shake dirty laundry. Wash clothing and bedding according to the manufacturer’s instructions – use warm water and dry them completely. General cleaning and disinfection advice | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You must put contaminated waste items such as tissues or wet wipes into a separate tied or sealed bag. This bag can then go into the general household waste bag or bin. If you do not have a kerbside service, we recommend still putting all infected waste in a separate tied or sealed bag. That bag can then go into a general household waste bag. Check your local council website for further guidance on disposal options in your area. --- Section Separator --- Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. It is best to wait at least 4 weeks after you recover. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is rare, especially when you are vaccinated, but it is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. But some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. For support with management and treatment of Long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about Long COVID on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 How to self-isolate What to expect if you go into managed isolation What to expect after you have had COVID-19 Getting extra support if you have COVID-19 or are self-isolating Care in the community Financial support
Home Isolation and care What to expect if you go into managed isolation --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, your doctor or a health professional will call you to discuss: what it means to have COVID-19 and what you need to do all the people you have had contact with recently if you will move into a managed isolation facility (MIQ) or self-isolate at home. In MIQ, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus from spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise, they will need to self-isolate at home. MIQ facilities are hotels around New Zealand where you can isolate. There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. Financial support If it is more suitable for you to go into MIQ, you will move as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus from spreading to others, and make sure you are well looked after. The staff at the facility are well-trained in cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Staff will closely watch your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will help you make arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It is up to you and your whānau and household to decide: if you want to isolate together in an MIQ facility, or if the person with COVID-19 goes into MIQ alone. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. Information for people entering MIQ due to the community outbreak | miq.govt.nz (external link) If you have pets that will need to be looked after while you are away from home, you will have time to make these arrangements. On arrival, you will get a 'welcome pack' with information about what to expect during your stay. You will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments, so you do not need to leave to get supplies. There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) If you are unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to the hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in MIQ, or any COVID-19 related medical costs. The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that did not need hospital care, this will be: at least 10 to 14 days after the onset of your symptoms, and after you have had no symptoms for at least 72 hours. If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be on a case-by-case basis. What to expect after you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, your doctor or a health professional will call you to discuss: what it means to have COVID-19 and what you need to do all the people you have had contact with recently if you will move into a managed isolation facility (MIQ) or self-isolate at home. In MIQ, we can look after your health and wellbeing, and more easily stop the virus from spreading. Your family can join you if you want. Otherwise, they will need to self-isolate at home. MIQ facilities are hotels around New Zealand where you can isolate. There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. You may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme if you need to take leave from work. Financial support --- Section Separator --- If it is more suitable for you to go into MIQ, you will move as quickly as possible. This helps to make sure we can stop the virus from spreading to others, and make sure you are well looked after. The staff at the facility are well-trained in cleaning and hygiene procedures to keep the disease isolated. They have protective equipment to do this safely. Staff will closely watch your physical and mental health during your stay. A staff member from your public health unit will help you make arrangements, including transport to the facility. Your household close contacts will need to self-isolate. It is up to you and your whānau and household to decide: if you want to isolate together in an MIQ facility, or if the person with COVID-19 goes into MIQ alone. A staff member from your public health unit will support you in making these decisions and arrangements. Information for people entering MIQ due to the community outbreak | miq.govt.nz (external link) If you have pets that will need to be looked after while you are away from home, you will have time to make these arrangements. --- Section Separator --- On arrival, you will get a 'welcome pack' with information about what to expect during your stay. You will get 3 meals a day and snacks, Wi-Fi, laundry services, basic toiletries, and refreshments, so you do not need to leave to get supplies. There is no cost to you for these services or the care that you receive. Read more about isolation facilities | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are unwell, a dedicated health team will be caring for you. If you become very unwell you may need to go to the hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you have tested positive for COVID-19, you will not need to pay for your stay in MIQ, or any COVID-19 related medical costs. --- Section Separator --- The health team that cares for you will determine when you can return home and resume your everyday activities. They will need to be confident you are no longer infectious. If you had a mild to moderate illness that did not need hospital care, this will be: at least 10 to 14 days after the onset of your symptoms, and after you have had no symptoms for at least 72 hours. If you had a more severe illness that required hospital care you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be on a case-by-case basis. --- Section Separator --- What to expect after you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 How to self-isolate What to expect if you go into managed isolation What to expect after you have had COVID-19 Getting extra support if you have COVID-19 or are self-isolating Care in the community Financial support
Our COVID-19 information is currently under review and will be updated as soon as possible. Alternate formats are in Easy Read, New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL), braille, audio and Large Print. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Audio description Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. --- Section Separator --- An audio description adds an audio track to videos to describe essential information that is only presented visually on the screen. Audio descriptions help people who: are blind, vision-impaired or have low vision cannot keep their eyes on the screen because they are doing something — for example, cooking want help keeping track of details in the story. Find out more about audio description (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get audio descriptions of why we wear a mask or face covering on planes and public transport. Get audio descriptions of the NZ Vaccine Facts animated series. Get audio descriptions about Bluetooth tracing and the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Get audio descriptions of why we wear a mask or face covering on planes and public transport. Get audio descriptions of the NZ Vaccine Facts animated series. Get audio descriptions about Bluetooth tracing and the NZ COVID Tracer app.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Audio description Contact tracing (with audio description) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Contact tracing (with audio description) Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Contact tracing (with audio description) Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Audio description COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) --- Section Separator --- In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. --- Section Separator --- In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Contact tracing (with audio description) Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Contact tracing (with audio description) Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Audio description Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Contact tracing (with audio description) Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Contact tracing (with audio description) Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Braille --- Section Separator --- If you need information in hard-copy Braille, please contact Blind Citizens NZ. Email admin@abcnz.org.nz Call 04 389 0033 or 0800 222 694 --- Section Separator --- If you need information in hard-copy Braille, please contact Blind Citizens NZ. Email admin@abcnz.org.nz Call 04 389 0033 or 0800 222 694 --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Information in Easy Read format. --- Section Separator --- This page has lots of links to Easy Read information. Scroll down the page and click the boxes below to find more information. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information about the traffic lights system. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Easy Read about travelling to and from New Zealand, and travelling around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information about the traffic lights system. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Easy Read about travelling to and from New Zealand, and travelling around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Booking your COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 4 MB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 1.2 MB] An update about the gap between vaccine doses [DOCX, 2.8 MB] An update about the gap between vaccine doses [PDF, 1.3 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.6 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.4 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 11 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.5 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 8.9 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.8 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 15 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 3.8 MB] Talking to friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Talking to friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 3.1 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 6.4 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Booking your COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 4 MB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 1.2 MB] An update about the gap between vaccine doses [DOCX, 2.8 MB] An update about the gap between vaccine doses [PDF, 1.3 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.6 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.4 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 11 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.5 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 8.9 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.8 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 15 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 3.8 MB] Talking to friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Talking to friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 3.1 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 6.4 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Isolation and care (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- What to do if you are told to stay at home or self-isolate [DOCX, 8.6 MB] What to do if you are told to stay at home or self-isolate [PDF, 3.2 MB] If you get a positive test result [DOCX, 11 MB] If you get a positive test result [PDF, 2.1 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What to do if you are told to stay at home or self-isolate [DOCX, 8.6 MB] What to do if you are told to stay at home or self-isolate [PDF, 3.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- If you get a positive test result [DOCX, 11 MB] If you get a positive test result [PDF, 2.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [DOCX, 9 MB] What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [PDF, 1.3 MB] Getting the right information matters [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information matters [PDF, 850 KB] What is the Delta variant [DOCX, 11 MB] What is the Delta variant [PDF, 2.2 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering? [DOCX, 9.4 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering? [PDF, 1.9 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [PDF, 1.4 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 23 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.8 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.3 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [DOCX, 9 MB] What is coronavirus and COVID-19? [PDF, 1.3 MB] Getting the right information matters [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the right information matters [PDF, 850 KB] What is the Delta variant [DOCX, 11 MB] What is the Delta variant [PDF, 2.2 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- When do you need to wear a face covering? [DOCX, 9.4 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering? [PDF, 1.9 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 23 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.8 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Support (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [DOCX, 15 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [PDF, 3.6 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [DOCX, 15 MB] Getting food at Alert Levels 4 and 3 [PDF, 3.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Testing and tracing (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Getting tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.1 MB] What happens if your test says you have COVID-19? [DOCX, 4.4 MB] What happens if your test says you have COVID-19? [PDF, 1.9 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5.7 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.5 MB] What are locations of interest? [DOCX, 3 MB] What are locations of interest? [PDF, 1.3 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Getting tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.1 MB] What happens if your test says you have COVID-19? [DOCX, 4.4 MB] What happens if your test says you have COVID-19? [PDF, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5.7 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.5 MB] What are locations of interest? [DOCX, 3 MB] What are locations of interest? [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- About the COVID-19 Protection Framework [DOCX, 16 MB] About the COVID-19 Protection Framework [PDF, 3.5 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [DOCX, 9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [DOCX, 8.8 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [PDF, 1.6 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [DOCX, 6.5 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [DOCX, 19 MB] Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [PDF, 3.4 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- About the COVID-19 Protection Framework [DOCX, 16 MB] About the COVID-19 Protection Framework [PDF, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [DOCX, 9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [DOCX, 8.8 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [PDF, 1.6 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [DOCX, 6.5 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [DOCX, 19 MB] Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [PDF, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Travel (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [DOCX, 19 MB] Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [PDF, 3.4 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [DOCX, 19 MB] Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [PDF, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to and from New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to and from New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 166 KB] Everything you need to know about the Pfizer booster [DOCX, 115 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [DOCX, 149 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [DOCX, 79 KB] Everything you need to know about the Pfizer booster [WAV, 34 MB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [MP3, 406 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [MP3, 583 KB] Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 166 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [DOCX, 79 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [MP3, 583 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccine record card fact sheet [DOCX, 160 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [DOCX, 163 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card — opening announcement [MP3, 82 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card — fact sheet [MP3, 312 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card — closing announcement [MP3, 86 KB] --- Section Separator --- Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 166 KB] Everything you need to know about the Pfizer booster [DOCX, 115 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [DOCX, 149 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [DOCX, 79 KB] Everything you need to know about the Pfizer booster [WAV, 34 MB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Vaccinating everyone in New Zealand [MP3, 406 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [MP3, 583 KB] --- Section Separator --- Guide to COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 166 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [DOCX, 79 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] Change to recommended vaccine dose gap [MP3, 583 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccine record card fact sheet [DOCX, 160 KB] COVID-19 vaccine rollout plan [DOCX, 163 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card — opening announcement [MP3, 82 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card — fact sheet [MP3, 312 KB] COVID-19 vaccine record card — closing announcement [MP3, 86 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Isolation advice for COVID-19 contacts [DOCX, 535 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Isolation advice for COVID-19 contacts [DOCX, 535 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] The Delta variant of COVID-19 [DOCX, 536 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.1 MB] The Delta variant of COVID-19 [MP3, 870 KB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 537 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 1.7 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] Locations of interest [DOCX, 534 KB] Locations of interest [MP3, 614 KB] Isolation advice for COVID-19 contacts [DOCX, 535 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] The Delta variant of COVID-19 [DOCX, 536 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.1 MB] The Delta variant of COVID-19 [MP3, 870 KB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting the right information [DOCX, 96 KB] Getting the right information [MP3, 967 KB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 537 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 1.7 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest [DOCX, 534 KB] Locations of interest [MP3, 614 KB] --- Section Separator --- Isolation advice for COVID-19 contacts [DOCX, 535 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Support (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 72 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 72 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Who should get tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 66 KB] Getting testing for COVID-19 [DOCX, 535 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 540 KB] Who should get tested for COVID-19 [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 8.1 MB] Locations of interest [DOCX, 534 KB] Locations of interest [MP3, 614 KB] Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Who should get tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 66 KB] Getting testing for COVID-19 [DOCX, 535 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 540 KB] Who should get tested for COVID-19 [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 8.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest [DOCX, 534 KB] Locations of interest [MP3, 614 KB] --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Protection Framework [DOCX, 546 KB] The COVID-19 Protection Framework [MP3, 15 MB] Life at Red [DOCX, 551 KB] Life at Orange [DOCX, 544 KB] Travelling around New Zealand at different traffic light settings [DOCX, 542 KB] Life at Red [MP3, 21 MB] Life at Orange [MP3, 12 MB] --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Protection Framework [DOCX, 546 KB] The COVID-19 Protection Framework [MP3, 15 MB] --- Section Separator --- Life at Red [DOCX, 551 KB] Life at Orange [DOCX, 544 KB] Travelling around New Zealand at different traffic light settings [DOCX, 542 KB] Life at Red [MP3, 21 MB] Life at Orange [MP3, 12 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Travel (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Travelling around New Zealand at different traffic light settings [DOCX, 542 KB] Leaving New Zealand [MP3, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Travelling around New Zealand at different traffic light settings [DOCX, 542 KB] --- Section Separator --- Leaving New Zealand [MP3, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in NZSL, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information is NZSL about travelling to and from New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in NZSL about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in NZSL, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information is NZSL about travelling to and from New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in NZSL about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in NZSL, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Getting the COVID-19 vaccine (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Proving you are vaccinated (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Isolation and care (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Face masks (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Information about COVID-19 (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Support (NZSL) Find out what support you can get in NZSL about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Support (NZSL) Available support --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Support (NZSL) Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Testing and tracing (NZSL) Contact tracing (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Testing and tracing (NZSL) Testing (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) Traffic light settings (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Travel (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Posters Get your household and business traffic light ready by downloading our posters and resources. --- Section Separator --- You can view and download all our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. We have included a selection of posters here to help you get your business ready for the traffic light system. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) You can also order free C OVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry — version 1 [PDF, 115 KB] Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry — version 2 [PDF, 86 KB] Kia ora — Please have your vaccine pass ready [PDF, 116 KB] Vaccine pass required for entry [PDF, 86 KB] Verifying vaccine passes — please be patient [PDF, 1.5 MB] Vaccine pass required — Red settings are currently in place [PDF, 1.5 MB] Vaccine pass required — Orange settings are currently in place [PDF, 1.5 MB] No vaccine pass required — basic needs service [PDF, 1.5 MB] No vaccine pass required — Orange settings are currently in place [PDF, 1.5 MB] No vaccine pass required — Red settings are currently in place [PDF, 1.5 MB] Find out more about My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- All businesses and workplaces legally must display an NZ COVID Tracer QR code for each location. Get your QR code poster --- Section Separator --- How to check in safely [PDF, 1.4 MB] Record keeping slips [PDF, 394 KB] Record keeping box sticker [PDF, 73 KB] Record keeping box template — small [PDF, 51 KB] Record keeping box template — medium [PDF, 187 KB] Record keeping box template — large [PDF, 165 KB] --- Section Separator --- Track your journey [PDF, 1.5 MB] Travel safely [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Make a plan if you get COVID-19 [PDF, 195 KB] Kia ora — we're self-isolating. Please do not enter [PDF, 1.5 MB] Self isolating timeline [PDF, 90 KB] Support if you get COVID-19 [PDF, 227 KB] Get a QR code poster for your home (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to wear a face mask safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face mask [PDF, 115 KB] How to sew your own face mask [PDF, 160 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Honoa mai ki ngā whakaohiti mō ngā pārongo KŌWHEORI-19 kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori --- Section Separator --- Anei ngā whakahoutanga KOWHEORI-19 hou rawa: Te ora i te Whero Life at Red Te hāereere i Aotearoa Travel around New Zealand He tautoko mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 Support for if you get COVID-19 Kua rite tō kāinga ina pāngia tētahi e te KOWHEORI-19? Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? Te whiwhi i tō pota āpiti Getting your booster dose Te tiaki i ō tamariki mai i te KOWHEORI-19 Protecting your tamariki from COVID-19 I muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate Pfizer a tō tamaiti After your child’s Pfizer vaccination Ngā momo KOWHEORI-19 COVID-19 variants --- Section Separator --- E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19, i te wā e tuku ana i ngā herekoretanga nui ake ki te hunga whai tohu ārai mate. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Haere kia werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate kore utu ināianei, ā, ka wete i ngā here ki ngā mea e arohatia ana e koe mā Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. E haere ai koe i roto o Aotearoa, e tae mai ai koe i tāwāhi rānei, ka mate pea koe ki te whiwhi tiwhikete e tohu ana i tō tūnga kano ārai mate, te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, te kuhu atu rānei ki te wāhi noho taratahi. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo. --- Section Separator --- E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19, i te wā e tuku ana i ngā herekoretanga nui ake ki te hunga whai tohu ārai mate. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Haere kia werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate kore utu ināianei, ā, ka wete i ngā here ki ngā mea e arohatia ana e koe mā Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. E haere ai koe i roto o Aotearoa, e tae mai ai koe i tāwāhi rānei, ka mate pea koe ki te whiwhi tiwhikete e tohu ana i tō tūnga kano ārai mate, te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, te kuhu atu rānei ki te wāhi noho taratahi. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation He tautoko mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 | Support for if you get COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Ko te nuinga o te hunga kua whiwhi i ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate, ā, ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, ka ngāwari noa te pānga o te māuiui, ā, ka tino hoki ora mai i ō rātou kāinga, i tētahi atu wāhi noho e tika ana rānei. Ko te āhua o te tiaki i roto i te hapori, ko te tautoko i te tangata e ngā kaiwhakarato tiaki ā-rohe, ki te whakarite i te whakatutukitanga o ā rātou hiahia hauora, toko i te ora, oranga hoki i te wā e whakamātūtū mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19. Ko te hunga katoa e whakaatu ana tō rātou whakamātautau kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te hunga katoa e noho ana i ō rātou taha, me noho taratahi hoki hei āwhina ki te aukati i te horapatanga o te huaketo. E rua ngā huarahi o te noho taratahi ā-whaiaro – i te kāinga, i tētahi atu wāhi noho e tika ana rānei, i tētahi whare taratahi e whakahaeretia ana rānei. Ko ngā whare taratahi e whakahaeretia ana, kei ngā hōtēra i ētahi wāhi puta noa i Aotearoa, e taea ana e koe te noho taratahi mō te kore utu, me tō whānau hoki, mō te tekau rā, neke atu rānei. Mēnā he wāhi anō e taea ana e koe te whakauru atu, e whakaratoa ana rānei ki a koe, e āhua pai ana mōu ki te noho taratahi ā-whaiaro, ka taea e koe te noho taratahi i taua wāhi. Kia mōhio: mēnā e tino māuiui ana koe ka whiwhi koe i te maimoatanga i te hōhipera. Ina whakaatu tō whakamātautau kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, me noho taratahi koe i tō kāinga, i tētahi wāhi noho e tika ana rānei mō te tekau rā, neke atu rānei i te wā e whakamātūtū mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19. Me noho taratahi hoki te hunga katoa i tō kāinga noho mō te tekau rā neke atu rānei i te wā e whakamātūtū mai ana te tangata i whakaatu ai te whakamātautau kua pāngia ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ka whakamōhiotia koe mēnā ka roa ake i tēra. Kaua e: wehe atu i te wāhi e noho taratahi ana koe haere ki te mahi, kura, wāhi tūmatanui haere mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui, te haere i runga tēkehi rānei haere ki te tiki kai, rongoā rānei pōhiri manuhiri ki tō kāinga, engari ngā kaimahi hauora, hapori rānei e whakarato ana i te maimoatanga waiwai ki a koutou ko te hunga i tō kāinga haere ki tētahi toronga kano ārai mate. Mēnā he toronga kano ārai mate kua whakaritea, me waea atu ki te waea tāpui, haere mā runga ipurangi rānei ki te panoni i tō toronga haere ki tētahi wāhi tūmatanui ki te kori tinana – me kori i te kāinga anake. I te wā e tika ana, pātai ki tētahi hoa, whānau rānei ki te hoko kai māhau, engari kaua e kawea ki rō whare. Mēnā kāore e taea tēnei, me tono kai i runga ipurangi. Me whakarite kia waihotia ngā tukunga ki waho i tō kāinga, māhau tonu e kohi. Me mea noa te noho āmaimai, kohuki rānei mō te noho taratahi me te KOWHEORI-19. Ka whakaritea he tangata hauora hei whakapānga māhau, māna koe e whakapā putuputu ki a koe ki te tiro mēnā e noho haumaru ana koutou ko tō whānau, ā, e tautokona ana koutou, me te tuku ki a koe tētahi nama waea mō te tautoko ā-hauora 24 hāora i te rā. Ka rerekē pea ngā kaiwhakapā matua mō te tautoko ā-hauora puta noa i te motu. Ākene pea he tangata takitahi, he rōpū rānei tō kaiwhakapā, ka uru nei pea tō tākuta, tō kaiwhakarato hauora matua, hapori ā-rohe rānei. He nui tonu te hunga ka taea te noho pai mā te āwhinatanga o ngā hoa me te whānau, engari he mōhiohio anō, he āwhina hoki e wātea ana ina hiahiatia. Ina kīia koe kia noho taratahi, ka pātaitia mēnā ka hiahia tautoko, āwhina rānei koe. Ka taea e te nuinga o ngā tāngata te tiaki i a rātou anō. Engari tērā anō ētahi ka hiahia i ētahi mea pēnei i te kai. Ko Te Manatū Whakahiato Ora (MSD) te tira e whakarite ana i te tautoko, ā, e tūhonohono ana i ngā tāngata ki te ratonga tika hei āwhina i a rātou. Ina hiahia āwhina koe, mā MSD e tūhono atu i a koe ki te tangata tika. Tērā pea nō tētahi rōpū hapori, tari kāwanatanga, ratonga marae, tautoko rānei kua whakaritea e tētahi iwi. Mā rātou koe e waea ake ki te kōrero me pēhea tā rātou āwhina - kia whiwhi ai koutou ko tō whānau i te tautoko e tika ana ki te noho taratahi. Mēnā e noho taratahi ana, ā, e hiahia ana koe te tautoko, ka taea te waea atu ki te COVID Welfare Phone Line i 0800 512 337 . E tuwhera ana i ngā rā e whitu i te wiki. He mea nui tonu kia noho koe ki te kāinga kia hoki rā anō mai ō hua whakamātautau. Ki te kore e taea e koe te mahi i a koe e noho taratahi ana, ka taea pea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i te Short-term Absence Payment hei āwhina i a ia ki te utu i a koe. Mēnā e whakaatu ana tō whakamātautau kua pāngia koe, me noho taratahi rānei koe i te mea he pānga tata koe, ka taea pea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i te Leave Support Scheme. Ko te tikanga o tēnei he āwhina i a ia ki te utu tonu i a koe i a koe e noho taratahi ana. Mēnā he tākuhu koe, ā, kāore e taea te mahi i te wā e noho taratahi ana, ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ēnei utunga. Ka kitea ētahi atu mōhiohio i workandincome.govt.nz/employer-covid-support (external link) Ka whakapā atu tētahi ki a koe ki te whakamōhio atu mēnā kua whakaatu tō whakamātautau kua pāngia koe, ā, ki te tuku tautoko me te mōhiohio ki a koe. Ka kōrerorerotia tō hauora, toko i te ora me tō oranga. Tērā pea ko tō tākuta tēnei, he kaiwhakarato tauwhiro me te oranga, he kaiwhakarato Māori, o Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa, he rōpū hauora tūmatanui rānei. Mēnā ka taea e koe te noho haumaru i tō kāinga, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi pūhera manaaki, kei roto he tohutohu mō te tiaki-whaiaro, me pēhea hoki te whakapiki i tō ora. Kei roto hoki pea tētahi pulse oximeter ina hiahiatia ana. Mēnā he mōrearea iti tōu o te pāngia e te pokenga KOWHEORI taumaha, ā, he ngāwari noa ō tohumate, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi hihiranga hauora tuihono (he waea noa iho pea) ia rua rā. Mēnā he āhua kaha ō tohumate, ā, he āhua piki ake pea tō mōrearea, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi hihiratanga hauora tuihono ia rā mai i tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Ki te hiahia āwhina hauora kōhukihuki, kāore rānei i te tika tō whakangā, me wawe te waea atu ki 111 . Whakamōhiotia atu e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i tō waeatanga. Me auau te whakamātautau i te hunga katoa i tō kāinga ki te hihira mēnā kua pāngia rātou e te pokenga KOWHEORI-19. Ka whakamōhiotia koe āhea, pēhea, ā, ki hea hoki tēnei mahia ai. Ka whakahaeretia he aromatawai hauora e tētahi mātanga hauora i ngā rā 10 ki te 14 (kei runga i te āhua mēnā kua whiwhi kano ārai mate koe). Me wātea katoa i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i tō tinana e 72 hāora i mua i tō rā tuku, ā, me kaua tonu e whakaatu i ngā tohumate i muri iho. Mēnā ka whakaaetia, ka āhei koe ki te wehe i tō whare i te rā i muri mai. Ehara i te mea me whakamātautau koe. Mehemea i whakamātautauria koe, ka hua mai pea he hua tōrunga, engari ehara i te mea e pokea ana koe. Me noho kāinga katoa te hunga e noho ana i tō taha mō te roanga o te wā e noho taratahi ana koe (me ētahi atu o tō kāinga e pāngia ana). Kia tukuna mai te kēhi whakamutunga i te noho taratahi, ko te toenga o ngā mema o tō kāinga me noho taratahi tonu mō te tekau ngā rā. Ko te tikanga o tērā, he roa ake tā rātou noho taratahi i tō nohonga taratahi. Hei āwhina ki te whakaiti i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19, me: Noho tawhiti tonu i ētahi atu i tō kāinga. Mēnā ka taea e koe te karo i te tiri i ngā rūma, moenga rānei, te whakarite kai mā ētahi atu rānei, ka āwhina tēnei ki te whakaiti i te tūpono horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I ngā wā e taea ana, huakina ngā matapihi me ngā kūaha, e pupuhi ai te hau i tō whare. Me ūkui ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia ana e ētahi atu pērā i ngā katiwai me ngā papa kīhini ki te hopi, te wai me tētahi papanga. Kaua e tuari rīhi, pāokaoka, taora me ngā pera. Me horoi i ōu ake pueru. Kia auau te horoi i ō ringaringa, ā, me maremare, matihe rānei ki tō tuke, ki tētahi pepa aikiha rānei. Mēnā ka hiahia rongoā koe, whakapā atu ki tō tākuta, tō kēmehi pātata rānei ki te whakarite i ngā whakaritenga kia tukuna haumarutia ai ō rongoā ki tō kāinga. --- Section Separator --- Ko te nuinga o te hunga kua whiwhi i ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate, ā, ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, ka ngāwari noa te pānga o te māuiui, ā, ka tino hoki ora mai i ō rātou kāinga, i tētahi atu wāhi noho e tika ana rānei. Ko te āhua o te tiaki i roto i te hapori, ko te tautoko i te tangata e ngā kaiwhakarato tiaki ā-rohe, ki te whakarite i te whakatutukitanga o ā rātou hiahia hauora, toko i te ora, oranga hoki i te wā e whakamātūtū mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19. Ko te hunga katoa e whakaatu ana tō rātou whakamātautau kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te hunga katoa e noho ana i ō rātou taha, me noho taratahi hoki hei āwhina ki te aukati i te horapatanga o te huaketo. E rua ngā huarahi o te noho taratahi ā-whaiaro – i te kāinga, i tētahi atu wāhi noho e tika ana rānei, i tētahi whare taratahi e whakahaeretia ana rānei. Ko ngā whare taratahi e whakahaeretia ana, kei ngā hōtēra i ētahi wāhi puta noa i Aotearoa, e taea ana e koe te noho taratahi mō te kore utu, me tō whānau hoki, mō te tekau rā, neke atu rānei. Mēnā he wāhi anō e taea ana e koe te whakauru atu, e whakaratoa ana rānei ki a koe, e āhua pai ana mōu ki te noho taratahi ā-whaiaro, ka taea e koe te noho taratahi i taua wāhi. Kia mōhio: mēnā e tino māuiui ana koe ka whiwhi koe i te maimoatanga i te hōhipera. Ina whakaatu tō whakamātautau kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, me noho taratahi koe i tō kāinga, i tētahi wāhi noho e tika ana rānei mō te tekau rā, neke atu rānei i te wā e whakamātūtū mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19. Me noho taratahi hoki te hunga katoa i tō kāinga noho mō te tekau rā neke atu rānei i te wā e whakamātūtū mai ana te tangata i whakaatu ai te whakamātautau kua pāngia ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ka whakamōhiotia koe mēnā ka roa ake i tēra. Kaua e: wehe atu i te wāhi e noho taratahi ana koe haere ki te mahi, kura, wāhi tūmatanui haere mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui, te haere i runga tēkehi rānei haere ki te tiki kai, rongoā rānei pōhiri manuhiri ki tō kāinga, engari ngā kaimahi hauora, hapori rānei e whakarato ana i te maimoatanga waiwai ki a koutou ko te hunga i tō kāinga haere ki tētahi toronga kano ārai mate. Mēnā he toronga kano ārai mate kua whakaritea, me waea atu ki te waea tāpui, haere mā runga ipurangi rānei ki te panoni i tō toronga haere ki tētahi wāhi tūmatanui ki te kori tinana – me kori i te kāinga anake. I te wā e tika ana, pātai ki tētahi hoa, whānau rānei ki te hoko kai māhau, engari kaua e kawea ki rō whare. Mēnā kāore e taea tēnei, me tono kai i runga ipurangi. Me whakarite kia waihotia ngā tukunga ki waho i tō kāinga, māhau tonu e kohi. Me mea noa te noho āmaimai, kohuki rānei mō te noho taratahi me te KOWHEORI-19. Ka whakaritea he tangata hauora hei whakapānga māhau, māna koe e whakapā putuputu ki a koe ki te tiro mēnā e noho haumaru ana koutou ko tō whānau, ā, e tautokona ana koutou, me te tuku ki a koe tētahi nama waea mō te tautoko ā-hauora 24 hāora i te rā. Ka rerekē pea ngā kaiwhakapā matua mō te tautoko ā-hauora puta noa i te motu. Ākene pea he tangata takitahi, he rōpū rānei tō kaiwhakapā, ka uru nei pea tō tākuta, tō kaiwhakarato hauora matua, hapori ā-rohe rānei. He nui tonu te hunga ka taea te noho pai mā te āwhinatanga o ngā hoa me te whānau, engari he mōhiohio anō, he āwhina hoki e wātea ana ina hiahiatia. Ina kīia koe kia noho taratahi, ka pātaitia mēnā ka hiahia tautoko, āwhina rānei koe. Ka taea e te nuinga o ngā tāngata te tiaki i a rātou anō. Engari tērā anō ētahi ka hiahia i ētahi mea pēnei i te kai. Ko Te Manatū Whakahiato Ora (MSD) te tira e whakarite ana i te tautoko, ā, e tūhonohono ana i ngā tāngata ki te ratonga tika hei āwhina i a rātou. Ina hiahia āwhina koe, mā MSD e tūhono atu i a koe ki te tangata tika. Tērā pea nō tētahi rōpū hapori, tari kāwanatanga, ratonga marae, tautoko rānei kua whakaritea e tētahi iwi. Mā rātou koe e waea ake ki te kōrero me pēhea tā rātou āwhina - kia whiwhi ai koutou ko tō whānau i te tautoko e tika ana ki te noho taratahi. Mēnā e noho taratahi ana, ā, e hiahia ana koe te tautoko, ka taea te waea atu ki te COVID Welfare Phone Line i 0800 512 337 . E tuwhera ana i ngā rā e whitu i te wiki. He mea nui tonu kia noho koe ki te kāinga kia hoki rā anō mai ō hua whakamātautau. Ki te kore e taea e koe te mahi i a koe e noho taratahi ana, ka taea pea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i te Short-term Absence Payment hei āwhina i a ia ki te utu i a koe. Mēnā e whakaatu ana tō whakamātautau kua pāngia koe, me noho taratahi rānei koe i te mea he pānga tata koe, ka taea pea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i te Leave Support Scheme. Ko te tikanga o tēnei he āwhina i a ia ki te utu tonu i a koe i a koe e noho taratahi ana. Mēnā he tākuhu koe, ā, kāore e taea te mahi i te wā e noho taratahi ana, ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ēnei utunga. Ka kitea ētahi atu mōhiohio i workandincome.govt.nz/employer-covid-support (external link) Ka whakapā atu tētahi ki a koe ki te whakamōhio atu mēnā kua whakaatu tō whakamātautau kua pāngia koe, ā, ki te tuku tautoko me te mōhiohio ki a koe. Ka kōrerorerotia tō hauora, toko i te ora me tō oranga. Tērā pea ko tō tākuta tēnei, he kaiwhakarato tauwhiro me te oranga, he kaiwhakarato Māori, o Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa, he rōpū hauora tūmatanui rānei. Mēnā ka taea e koe te noho haumaru i tō kāinga, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi pūhera manaaki, kei roto he tohutohu mō te tiaki-whaiaro, me pēhea hoki te whakapiki i tō ora. Kei roto hoki pea tētahi pulse oximeter ina hiahiatia ana. Mēnā he mōrearea iti tōu o te pāngia e te pokenga KOWHEORI taumaha, ā, he ngāwari noa ō tohumate, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi hihiranga hauora tuihono (he waea noa iho pea) ia rua rā. Mēnā he āhua kaha ō tohumate, ā, he āhua piki ake pea tō mōrearea, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi hihiratanga hauora tuihono ia rā mai i tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Ki te hiahia āwhina hauora kōhukihuki, kāore rānei i te tika tō whakangā, me wawe te waea atu ki 111 . Whakamōhiotia atu e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i tō waeatanga. Me auau te whakamātautau i te hunga katoa i tō kāinga ki te hihira mēnā kua pāngia rātou e te pokenga KOWHEORI-19. Ka whakamōhiotia koe āhea, pēhea, ā, ki hea hoki tēnei mahia ai. Ka whakahaeretia he aromatawai hauora e tētahi mātanga hauora i ngā rā 10 ki te 14 (kei runga i te āhua mēnā kua whiwhi kano ārai mate koe). Me wātea katoa i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i tō tinana e 72 hāora i mua i tō rā tuku, ā, me kaua tonu e whakaatu i ngā tohumate i muri iho. Mēnā ka whakaaetia, ka āhei koe ki te wehe i tō whare i te rā i muri mai. Ehara i te mea me whakamātautau koe. Mehemea i whakamātautauria koe, ka hua mai pea he hua tōrunga, engari ehara i te mea e pokea ana koe. Me noho kāinga katoa te hunga e noho ana i tō taha mō te roanga o te wā e noho taratahi ana koe (me ētahi atu o tō kāinga e pāngia ana). Kia tukuna mai te kēhi whakamutunga i te noho taratahi, ko te toenga o ngā mema o tō kāinga me noho taratahi tonu mō te tekau ngā rā. Ko te tikanga o tērā, he roa ake tā rātou noho taratahi i tō nohonga taratahi. Hei āwhina ki te whakaiti i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19, me: Noho tawhiti tonu i ētahi atu i tō kāinga. Mēnā ka taea e koe te karo i te tiri i ngā rūma, moenga rānei, te whakarite kai mā ētahi atu rānei, ka āwhina tēnei ki te whakaiti i te tūpono horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I ngā wā e taea ana, huakina ngā matapihi me ngā kūaha, e pupuhi ai te hau i tō whare. Me ūkui ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia ana e ētahi atu pērā i ngā katiwai me ngā papa kīhini ki te hopi, te wai me tētahi papanga. Kaua e tuari rīhi, pāokaoka, taora me ngā pera. Me horoi i ōu ake pueru. Kia auau te horoi i ō ringaringa, ā, me maremare, matihe rānei ki tō tuke, ki tētahi pepa aikiha rānei. Mēnā ka hiahia rongoā koe, whakapā atu ki tō tākuta, tō kēmehi pātata rānei ki te whakarite i ngā whakaritenga kia tukuna haumarutia ai ō rongoā ki tō kāinga. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā ataata | Videos --- Section Separator --- አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te hāereere | Travel Te tautoko | Support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā ataata | Videos Rama toru | Traffic lights Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te hāereere | Travel Te tautoko | Support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā ataata | Videos ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ngā tāruatanga koreutu o ā mātou rauemi me ngā huarawa mai i tā mātou Tomokanga Bluestar. (external link) Haere ki toolkit.covid19.govt.nz (external link) ka whakamahi i te pātene Login/Register ki te hanga pūkete. Whakamahia te āputa rapunga ki te whakauru kupu matua e hāngai ana ki te rauemi e rapu ana koe. He reo Pākehā te pae. Nō reira mēnā e kimi ana koe i ngā rauemi kua whakamāoritia, me rapu mā ngā kupu Pākehā (hei tauira, face coverings, contact tracing, testing, aha atu.) Ka taea hoki e koe te rapu i tō reo e kitea ai ngā rauemi katoa e wātea ana. Kia mutu tō pato ki te Search ka taea e koe te whakarei ake i ō hua mā ngā tātari takaiho. Kia kitea e koe tāu e hiahia ana, tīkina ake, tiria, tāpiritia rānei ki tō kete mēnā e tīkina ake ana e koe ngā tūemi maha. Mēnā he pātai āu, e hiahia āwhina ana rānei, īmēra ki COVID19Brand@dpmc.govt.nz Me tono i ngā huarawa kore utu mā tō pakihi, whakahaere hapori, takahanga rānei mā tā mātou rārangi tuihono, ā, ka tukua ngā rauemi hāngai ki a koe, tō pakihi, tō rōpū hapori rānei. Haere ki te Bluestar Portal. (external link) --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ngā tāruatanga koreutu o ā mātou rauemi me ngā huarawa mai i tā mātou Tomokanga Bluestar. (external link) Haere ki toolkit.covid19.govt.nz (external link) ka whakamahi i te pātene Login/Register ki te hanga pūkete. Whakamahia te āputa rapunga ki te whakauru kupu matua e hāngai ana ki te rauemi e rapu ana koe. He reo Pākehā te pae. Nō reira mēnā e kimi ana koe i ngā rauemi kua whakamāoritia, me rapu mā ngā kupu Pākehā (hei tauira, face coverings, contact tracing, testing, aha atu.) Ka taea hoki e koe te rapu i tō reo e kitea ai ngā rauemi katoa e wātea ana. Kia mutu tō pato ki te Search ka taea e koe te whakarei ake i ō hua mā ngā tātari takaiho. Kia kitea e koe tāu e hiahia ana, tīkina ake, tiria, tāpiritia rānei ki tō kete mēnā e tīkina ake ana e koe ngā tūemi maha. Mēnā he pātai āu, e hiahia āwhina ana rānei, īmēra ki COVID19Brand@dpmc.govt.nz Me tono i ngā huarawa kore utu mā tō pakihi, whakahaere hapori, takahanga rānei mā tā mātou rārangi tuihono, ā, ka tukua ngā rauemi hāngai ki a koe, tō pakihi, tō rōpū hapori rānei. Haere ki te Bluestar Portal. (external link) --- Section Separator --- አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te hāereere | Travel Te tautoko | Support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā ataata | Videos Rama toru | Traffic lights Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te hāereere | Travel Te tautoko | Support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā ataata | Videos ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā ārai kanohi me ngā maruhā | Face coverings and masks Te mau ārai kanohi | Wearing a face covering --- Section Separator --- Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Karaka me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Whero me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Karaka me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Whero me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā ārai kanohi me ngā maruhā | Face coverings and masks Ko wai te hunga kāore e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi? | Who does not need to wear a face covering? --- Section Separator --- E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Kia mahara koe ki tēnei āhuatanga. E whai āheinga tonu ana rātou ki ngā ratonga kai, kēmehi me ētahi atu ratonga. Mēnā e taea ana, ka akiakitia koe ki te mau i tētahi ārai kanohi. Ko te mau ārai kanohi kāore e hiahiatia: e ngā tamariki i raro i te 12 tau e ngā ākonga i runga pahi kura i ngā ratonga waka kawe pāhihi i waenga i Te Ika-a-Māui me Te Waipounamu i runga poti, kaipuke rānei kāore he wāhi tāparepare mā ngā pāhihi, hei tauira, ngā haerenga waka torohaki i runga haerenga rēti waka, ā-rōpū rānei i runga rerenga tūmataiti e ngā kaihautū waka, rererangi, kaimahi rānei o te ratonga mēnā kei tētahi wāhi tūwehe atu i ngā pāhihi, hei tauira ngā kaihautū rererangi, ngā kaihautū tereina rānei. Kāore hoki koe e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi mēnā: kāore i te haumaru, hei tauira, mēnā kāore e taea e te kaihautū te hautū haumaru i tētahi waka he ohotata he māuiuitanga hauora hinengaro, tinana rānei, he mate, he hauātanga rānei tōu kāore e tika ana kia mau i te ārai kanohi me whakapūmau koe i tō tuakiri me whakawhiti kōrero koe ki tētahi tangata turi, uaua rānei te rongo me kai rongoā koe me kai, me inu rānei koe mēnā e whakaaetia ana te inu me te kai kāore e herea ana e te ture E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Ki te kore e taea e koe te mau i tētahi, ka taea e koe te tiki kāri awere. Ka taea e koe te whakaatu i tō kāri awere i ngā wā e hiahia ana. He kāri awere i ngā ārai kanohi (external link) --- Section Separator --- E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Kia mahara koe ki tēnei āhuatanga. E whai āheinga tonu ana rātou ki ngā ratonga kai, kēmehi me ētahi atu ratonga. Mēnā e taea ana, ka akiakitia koe ki te mau i tētahi ārai kanohi. Ko te mau ārai kanohi kāore e hiahiatia: e ngā tamariki i raro i te 12 tau e ngā ākonga i runga pahi kura i ngā ratonga waka kawe pāhihi i waenga i Te Ika-a-Māui me Te Waipounamu i runga poti, kaipuke rānei kāore he wāhi tāparepare mā ngā pāhihi, hei tauira, ngā haerenga waka torohaki i runga haerenga rēti waka, ā-rōpū rānei i runga rerenga tūmataiti e ngā kaihautū waka, rererangi, kaimahi rānei o te ratonga mēnā kei tētahi wāhi tūwehe atu i ngā pāhihi, hei tauira ngā kaihautū rererangi, ngā kaihautū tereina rānei. Kāore hoki koe e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi mēnā: kāore i te haumaru, hei tauira, mēnā kāore e taea e te kaihautū te hautū haumaru i tētahi waka he ohotata he māuiuitanga hauora hinengaro, tinana rānei, he mate, he hauātanga rānei tōu kāore e tika ana kia mau i te ārai kanohi me whakapūmau koe i tō tuakiri me whakawhiti kōrero koe ki tētahi tangata turi, uaua rānei te rongo me kai rongoā koe me kai, me inu rānei koe mēnā e whakaaetia ana te inu me te kai kāore e herea ana e te ture E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Ki te kore e taea e koe te mau i tētahi, ka taea e koe te tiki kāri awere. Ka taea e koe te whakaatu i tō kāri awere i ngā wā e hiahia ana. He kāri awere i ngā ārai kanohi (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. --- Section Separator --- Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā pārongo mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Information about COVID-19 Ngā momo KOWHEORI-19 | COVID-19 variants --- Section Separator --- He tikanga noa te huringa, te irakētanga rānei o ngā wheori. Kua rerekē te āhua o te wheori KOWHEORI-19 i te hekenga o te wā, i a ia e urutau ana ki te tangata. Nā tēnei i hua mai ai ngā momo hou o te wheori, tae atu ki te momo Delta, Omicron hoki. Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. I tere te hora a te momo Delta puta noa i te ao Te Hunga e Pokea ana e te Delta: ka kino ake te whanaketanga o ngā māuiuitanga KOWHEORI-19 i ētahi atu momo o te wheori he nui ake te mōrearea ka whakaurua atu ki rō hōhipera te āhua nei he nui ake te kawenga o te wheori (he kawenga wheori nui ake) ā, he roa ake te wā e kawea ana, tērā i ētahi atu momo kāore pea ōna tohumate (he tohumate-kore) ina maunoa taua mate Mā te whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate e rua, ka whai ārainga nui koe i te pokenga Delta, ā, he ārainga nui ake hoki i te mate taumaha, te noho hōhipera me te mate tonu atu. He 64–95% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki te māuiui whai tohumate. Kua tata ki te 90–96% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō te karo i te whakaurunga ki te hohipera, i te māuiui taumaha rānei nā te whakapokenga Delta. I kitea tuatahitia te Omicron i te Whiringa-ā-nuku 2021, ā, i whakatauhia hei momo mōrearea e te World Health Organisation. Kua tere hora puta noa ki te ao, ā, e kitea ana i ngā whenua neke atu i te 70. E whakaatu ana ngā taunakitanga tōmua he tūpono nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron i ērā o ngā momo o te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te Delta. E ako tonu ana mātou mō tēnei momo o te wheori. E whakaatu ana ngā pūrongo tōmua, ina whakatauritehia ki te Delta: He nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron Tērā pea he ōrite tonu pea ngā tohumate, engari e tāria ana ētahi atu raraunga He ōrite ngā pāpātanga hōhipera o te Omicron, engari e tāria tonutia ana ētahi atu mōhiohio hei whakatau i te kaha o te tahumaero. E tohu ana ngā tātaritanga tōmua tērā ka puta anō he āraitanga i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te tahumaero ā-tohumate ka hua mai i te Omicron, engari ka heke haere tēnei āraitanga ā tōna wā. Ka nui ake te āraitanga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te pota āpiti. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 ) ki te whakarite tāpui. He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Kāore tētahi kano āraimate e eke ki te 100% te whaihuatanga, nō reira he tūponotanga anō kei pāngia tētahi tangata whai kano ārai mate ki te momo Delta, me te tuku i te wheori ki ētahi atu. Nō reira me whakamahi i ngā āhuatanga katoa e wātea ana, tae atu ki te kano ārai mate, ki te tiaki i a tātou me ō tātou hapori i te mate. Mā te kitenga wawe i ngā kēhi, te whai i ngā tapuwae, me te whakataratahi i ngā kēhi me ā rātou pānga, he waiwai ki te whakamutu i te horanga o ngā momo katoa o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e tātou te takahi wawe atu i ngā pakarutanga ki ngā hapori mā te: Te whai i ngā ture rama toru . Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā e herea ana e ngā ture Pae Mataara. Te noho tawhiti ā-tinana i te 2m mēnā ka taea. Te noho ki te kāinga mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu me te waea atu ki Healthline i runga i te 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu mō te rapu whakamātautau . Te whai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te matawai i ngā waehere QR, mā te tuhi rānei i ngā tuhipoka āmiki. Mā te whakakā te whaiwhai hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer. --- Section Separator --- He tikanga noa te huringa, te irakētanga rānei o ngā wheori. Kua rerekē te āhua o te wheori KOWHEORI-19 i te hekenga o te wā, i a ia e urutau ana ki te tangata. Nā tēnei i hua mai ai ngā momo hou o te wheori, tae atu ki te momo Delta, Omicron hoki. Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. I tere te hora a te momo Delta puta noa i te ao Te Hunga e Pokea ana e te Delta: ka kino ake te whanaketanga o ngā māuiuitanga KOWHEORI-19 i ētahi atu momo o te wheori he nui ake te mōrearea ka whakaurua atu ki rō hōhipera te āhua nei he nui ake te kawenga o te wheori (he kawenga wheori nui ake) ā, he roa ake te wā e kawea ana, tērā i ētahi atu momo kāore pea ōna tohumate (he tohumate-kore) ina maunoa taua mate Mā te whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate e rua, ka whai ārainga nui koe i te pokenga Delta, ā, he ārainga nui ake hoki i te mate taumaha, te noho hōhipera me te mate tonu atu. He 64–95% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki te māuiui whai tohumate. Kua tata ki te 90–96% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō te karo i te whakaurunga ki te hohipera, i te māuiui taumaha rānei nā te whakapokenga Delta. I kitea tuatahitia te Omicron i te Whiringa-ā-nuku 2021, ā, i whakatauhia hei momo mōrearea e te World Health Organisation. Kua tere hora puta noa ki te ao, ā, e kitea ana i ngā whenua neke atu i te 70. E whakaatu ana ngā taunakitanga tōmua he tūpono nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron i ērā o ngā momo o te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te Delta. E ako tonu ana mātou mō tēnei momo o te wheori. E whakaatu ana ngā pūrongo tōmua, ina whakatauritehia ki te Delta: He nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron Tērā pea he ōrite tonu pea ngā tohumate, engari e tāria ana ētahi atu raraunga He ōrite ngā pāpātanga hōhipera o te Omicron, engari e tāria tonutia ana ētahi atu mōhiohio hei whakatau i te kaha o te tahumaero. E tohu ana ngā tātaritanga tōmua tērā ka puta anō he āraitanga i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te tahumaero ā-tohumate ka hua mai i te Omicron, engari ka heke haere tēnei āraitanga ā tōna wā. Ka nui ake te āraitanga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te pota āpiti. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 ) ki te whakarite tāpui. He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Kāore tētahi kano āraimate e eke ki te 100% te whaihuatanga, nō reira he tūponotanga anō kei pāngia tētahi tangata whai kano ārai mate ki te momo Delta, me te tuku i te wheori ki ētahi atu. Nō reira me whakamahi i ngā āhuatanga katoa e wātea ana, tae atu ki te kano ārai mate, ki te tiaki i a tātou me ō tātou hapori i te mate. Mā te kitenga wawe i ngā kēhi, te whai i ngā tapuwae, me te whakataratahi i ngā kēhi me ā rātou pānga, he waiwai ki te whakamutu i te horanga o ngā momo katoa o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e tātou te takahi wawe atu i ngā pakarutanga ki ngā hapori mā te: Te whai i ngā ture rama toru . Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā e herea ana e ngā ture Pae Mataara. Te noho tawhiti ā-tinana i te 2m mēnā ka taea. Te noho ki te kāinga mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu me te waea atu ki Healthline i runga i te 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu mō te rapu whakamātautau . Te whai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te matawai i ngā waehere QR, mā te tuhi rānei i ngā tuhipoka āmiki. Mā te whakakā te whaiwhai hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā pārongo mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Information about COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms --- Section Separator --- He mate te KOWHEORI-19 e ahu mai ana i te mate korona SARS-CoV-2. Ka pā kino ki ō pūkahukahu, arahau, me ētahi atu whēkau. Nō tētahi whānau huaketo nunui ngā mate korona e pā mai ai te mate. Arā, pērā i te whurū, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) me te Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). I kitea tuatahitia te SARS-CoV-2 i Haina, ā, ko te āhua nei i ahu mai i ngā kararehe. Kāore tonu i te mōhiotia i pēhea te whai pānga mai o te mate ki te tangata. Kua rerekē haere te huaketo i roto i te wā i tōna urutaunga ki te tangata. Ko ētahi o ēnei i rerekētanga, pērā i te Delta, ka māmā ake te hōrapa tēnā i te huaketo taketake, ā, ka kino te mate ka pā mai. Anei ētahi tohumate: he maremare hou, kei te kino kē atu rānei ka kirikā ka hē manawa mamae korokoro te matihe, ka rere te hūpē rānei kua kore e rongo te ihu mō tētahi wā, kua rerekē rānei te tāwara. Ehara i te mea e tohu ana ēnei tohumate kua pā mai te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te ōrite ēnei tohumate ki ētahi atu māuiui e tino kitea nei, pēnei i te rewharewha me te whurū. Tērā pea e tohu ana te hē manawa i te numonia, ā, me wawe te haere kia tirohia e te rata. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate o te rewharewha, whurū, KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 ka whiwhi tohutohu mō te whiwhi aromatawai. Ētahi tohumate kāore e tino kitea Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate kāore e tino kitea ka pā mai anake ko te: mate tikotiko ka ānini te māhunga mamae uaua, mamae tinana rānei whakapairuaki ruaki hūhi — he auhi, he mate, he maihi rānei mamae uma mamae puku mamae pona pōkaikaha me te kārangi. I ētahi wā he tata ki te 14 rā kātahi anō ka puta ngā tohumate i te tangata kua pāngia. Ka taea te tuku te huaketo ki ētahi atu tae atu ki te rua rā i mua i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka taea te tuku ki tētahi atu i mua i te mōhiotanga o te tangata kei a ia te KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ka hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 mai i tētahi ki tētahi. Ina whakahā, kōrero, maremare, matihe, waiata rānei te tangata mate, ka hōrapa pea ngā korakora kei roto te huaketo. He nui ake te mōrea o te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19: kei ngā wāhi kua katia kāore i te pai te rere o te hau i ngā wāhi he maha ngā tāngata he wāhi e pātata ana ngā tāngata, pērā i ngā kōrerorero e tata ana te tangata, te waiata, te hāparangi rānei. He iti iho te mōrea i waho, ā, he tokoiti ake ngā tāngata, mēnā e tāwhitiwhiti ana tētahi i tētahi. Ka taea e ēnei mahi māmā te whakapōturi te hōrapa o te huaketo me te āwhina ki te whakamaru i a koe, tō whānau, tō hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua pā mai te rewharewha, te whurū, ngā tohumate COVID-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki tō rata, Healthline rānei mō te koreutu i 0800 358 5453 . Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me mau ārai kanohi ina hiahiatia, ina uaua rānei te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Me mau haere tonu koe ki ngā wāhi i haere koe mā te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, mā ngā tuhituhi whai taipitopito. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. --- Section Separator --- He mate te KOWHEORI-19 e ahu mai ana i te mate korona SARS-CoV-2. Ka pā kino ki ō pūkahukahu, arahau, me ētahi atu whēkau. Nō tētahi whānau huaketo nunui ngā mate korona e pā mai ai te mate. Arā, pērā i te whurū, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) me te Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). I kitea tuatahitia te SARS-CoV-2 i Haina, ā, ko te āhua nei i ahu mai i ngā kararehe. Kāore tonu i te mōhiotia i pēhea te whai pānga mai o te mate ki te tangata. Kua rerekē haere te huaketo i roto i te wā i tōna urutaunga ki te tangata. Ko ētahi o ēnei i rerekētanga, pērā i te Delta, ka māmā ake te hōrapa tēnā i te huaketo taketake, ā, ka kino te mate ka pā mai. Anei ētahi tohumate: he maremare hou, kei te kino kē atu rānei ka kirikā ka hē manawa mamae korokoro te matihe, ka rere te hūpē rānei kua kore e rongo te ihu mō tētahi wā, kua rerekē rānei te tāwara. Ehara i te mea e tohu ana ēnei tohumate kua pā mai te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te ōrite ēnei tohumate ki ētahi atu māuiui e tino kitea nei, pēnei i te rewharewha me te whurū. Tērā pea e tohu ana te hē manawa i te numonia, ā, me wawe te haere kia tirohia e te rata. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate o te rewharewha, whurū, KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 ka whiwhi tohutohu mō te whiwhi aromatawai. Ētahi tohumate kāore e tino kitea Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate kāore e tino kitea ka pā mai anake ko te: mate tikotiko ka ānini te māhunga mamae uaua, mamae tinana rānei whakapairuaki ruaki hūhi — he auhi, he mate, he maihi rānei mamae uma mamae puku mamae pona pōkaikaha me te kārangi. I ētahi wā he tata ki te 14 rā kātahi anō ka puta ngā tohumate i te tangata kua pāngia. Ka taea te tuku te huaketo ki ētahi atu tae atu ki te rua rā i mua i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka taea te tuku ki tētahi atu i mua i te mōhiotanga o te tangata kei a ia te KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ka hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 mai i tētahi ki tētahi. Ina whakahā, kōrero, maremare, matihe, waiata rānei te tangata mate, ka hōrapa pea ngā korakora kei roto te huaketo. He nui ake te mōrea o te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19: kei ngā wāhi kua katia kāore i te pai te rere o te hau i ngā wāhi he maha ngā tāngata he wāhi e pātata ana ngā tāngata, pērā i ngā kōrerorero e tata ana te tangata, te waiata, te hāparangi rānei. He iti iho te mōrea i waho, ā, he tokoiti ake ngā tāngata, mēnā e tāwhitiwhiti ana tētahi i tētahi. Ka taea e ēnei mahi māmā te whakapōturi te hōrapa o te huaketo me te āwhina ki te whakamaru i a koe, tō whānau, tō hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua pā mai te rewharewha, te whurū, ngā tohumate COVID-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki tō rata, Healthline rānei mō te koreutu i 0800 358 5453 . Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me mau ārai kanohi ina hiahiatia, ina uaua rānei te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Me mau haere tonu koe ki ngā wāhi i haere koe mā te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, mā ngā tuhituhi whai taipitopito. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā pārongo mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Information about COVID-19 He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters --- Section Separator --- He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: ahu mai i tētahi e huna nei tōna ingoa ake kī mai he pārongo kei a ia nō roto i ngā pokapū kāwanatanga, engari kāore e tautuhia te puna kī mai e whāngai pārongo ana ia kua hunaia i te marea, kāore rānei ngā āpiha e pīrangi nei kia mōhiotia e koe kī mai i te nuinga o te wā, ko te ‘kōrero houtupu’ e kino ake ana i te pārongo e whaimana ana. I tētahi wā pēnei: kia mataara koe ki ngā pārongo ka arohia e koe tirohia te kounga o te pārongo i mua i tō tuku ki ētahi atu. Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) --- Section Separator --- He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: ahu mai i tētahi e huna nei tōna ingoa ake kī mai he pārongo kei a ia nō roto i ngā pokapū kāwanatanga, engari kāore e tautuhia te puna kī mai e whāngai pārongo ana ia kua hunaia i te marea, kāore rānei ngā āpiha e pīrangi nei kia mōhiotia e koe kī mai i te nuinga o te wā, ko te ‘kōrero houtupu’ e kino ake ana i te pārongo e whaimana ana. I tētahi wā pēnei: kia mataara koe ki ngā pārongo ka arohia e koe tirohia te kounga o te pārongo i mua i tō tuku ki ētahi atu. Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Kua rite tō kāinga ina pāngia tētahi e te KOWHEORI-19? | Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? --- Section Separator --- Kāore e kore ka kitea he kēhi tōrunga o te KOWHEORI-19 i tō hapori. Ka wātea tonu te pūnaha tiaki hauora mō te hunga e hiahia ana i tā mātou āwhina engari ko te nuinga o te hunga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, e kore e mate ki te noho ki te hōhipera, ā, ka āhei ki te noho taratahi haumaru i te kāinga. Me noho i te kāinga te hunga katoa ka whiwhi i te whakamātautau e whakaatu ana kua pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 me ērā hoki e noho ana i tō rātou kāinga, ā, me kaua e whakapā ki ētahi atu, tae ake ki te whānau. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ko te tangata, ngā whakawhiti kōrerorero, ngā hononga me te mōhio me aha. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ka taea e tō whānau me te hapori te āwhina tētahi i tētahi mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Whakamahia te rārangi i raro nei ki te whakarite kōrerorero, ki te whakatau hoki he pēhea nei tō rite ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka whakarite mahere mō tō kāinga. Whakaritea ka aha koe mēnā ka māuiui tētahi Tautuhia ngā tāngata i waho atu i tō kāinga ka taea te āwhina i a koe mēnā e noho taratahi ana tō whānau, hei tauira, ki te whakataka kai, ētahi atu mea, mō te tautoko toko i te ora rānei. Ka taea pea e ngā ratonga pēnei i te Student Volunteer Army te āwhina i a koe me ngā whakatakanga, ā, ka taea pea e Te Tari Hiranga Tangata te āwhina me ngā utunga. He tāngata anō i tō kāinga tērā pea e hiahiatia ana he āwhina tāpiri, he tautoko rānei? Kōrero ki tētahi kaitiaki i rō whare kia mātua whakarite koe e whakaae ana ia ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i te hiahia ki te noho taratahi. Me whakarite mahere mēnā he tikanga tiri tamaiti tāu. Kōrero ki tō kura, tō mahi, ngā rōpū me ngā whatunga hapori ki te rapu he aha tā rātou mahere - e hiahia ana rātou i ētahi mea i a koe? Ka taea e rātou te tautoko i a koe? Whakarite me pēhea te whakamōhio i ētahi atu, e noho taratahi ana tō kāinga - tērā pea he tohu i tō kūaha, tō taiapa rānei. Whakaritea he wāhi i waho i tō kūaha me te patuero, pene me te pepa, he waehere QR rānei kia taea e te hunga te tuhi i ā rātou taipitopito mēnā e āwhina ana rātou me ngā takanga pākore. Mēnā e āwhina ana ētahi me ngā whakatakanga pākore, ka hiahia koe kia pātuhi rātou, tuku karere rānei i mua i te taenga ake? Pēhia te haona o te motukā mai i te kēti? Me haere mā tētahi tomokanga kua whakaaetia? Me tuhi i ngā tohutohu ā-kāinga ka taea e tētahi atu te whai mēnā ka māuiui koe. Me uru ngā tohutohu mō te whāngai mōkai, utu nama, te whāngai i ngā tipu hoki. Me whai whakaaro, me kōrero rānei me pēhea te whakaiti i te tūpono tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 puta noa i tō kāinga. Ka taea e koe te whakaiti i ngā wāhi tiri, te whakanui rānei i te mahi horoi? Tirohia ngā mea e hiahiatia ana e koe hei āwhina i a koe me te hunga kei tō taha Whakaritea he rārangi o ngā mōhiohio o te whānau - me uru ngā ingoa, te pakeke, ngā nama tautuhi hauora (NHI), ngā āhuatanga hauora me ngā rongoā e kaingia ana, ngā rongoā rānei ka hiahia ia tangata katoa. Me uru ngā mōhiohio whakapā ohotata pēnei i tō tākuta, ngā hāora pō, me ētahi atu tari tautoko. Kohia ngā mea e pārekareka ana ki a koe. He aha ētahi āwhinatanga hei aukati i te takeotanga mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe? Me mātua whakarite kia mōhio ngā tino tāngata me aha rātou Me whakarite hui ā-kainga, kia mātua mōhio te katoa (tae atu ki ngā mea tamariki) me aha rātou, me pēhea te tautoko tētahi i tētahi, ā, me whakapā atu ki a wai mēnā ka māuiuitia tētahi, ka kawea rānei ki te hōhipera. Tiria tō mahere ki te whānau whānui, ngā hoa noho tata me ngā manuhiri auau, ā, kōrero ki a rātou he aha tō hiahia mai i a rātou, ā, me pēhea tā koutou tautoko tētahi i tētahi. Kei roto tātou katoa i tēnei tū āhua, ā, ka puta tahi tātou i tēnei tū āhua Me noho tūhonohono - me huihui tonu ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Mēnā e noho taratahi ana, me tū ēnei hui i runga ipurangi, mā te waea rānei. Tautokona ō hoa, tō whānau me ō hoamahi ki te whakarite i ā rātou ake mahere kia takatū ai. Me rapu e aha ana tō hapori - he rōpū anō kei te taka kai hei whakamātao, e tiri ana i ngā tīwhiri whakamahere, e mōhio ana rānei ki ngā karere o te wā? Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] --- Section Separator --- Kāore e kore ka kitea he kēhi tōrunga o te KOWHEORI-19 i tō hapori. Ka wātea tonu te pūnaha tiaki hauora mō te hunga e hiahia ana i tā mātou āwhina engari ko te nuinga o te hunga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, e kore e mate ki te noho ki te hōhipera, ā, ka āhei ki te noho taratahi haumaru i te kāinga. Me noho i te kāinga te hunga katoa ka whiwhi i te whakamātautau e whakaatu ana kua pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 me ērā hoki e noho ana i tō rātou kāinga, ā, me kaua e whakapā ki ētahi atu, tae ake ki te whānau. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ko te tangata, ngā whakawhiti kōrerorero, ngā hononga me te mōhio me aha. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ka taea e tō whānau me te hapori te āwhina tētahi i tētahi mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Whakamahia te rārangi i raro nei ki te whakarite kōrerorero, ki te whakatau hoki he pēhea nei tō rite ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka whakarite mahere mō tō kāinga. Whakaritea ka aha koe mēnā ka māuiui tētahi Tautuhia ngā tāngata i waho atu i tō kāinga ka taea te āwhina i a koe mēnā e noho taratahi ana tō whānau, hei tauira, ki te whakataka kai, ētahi atu mea, mō te tautoko toko i te ora rānei. Ka taea pea e ngā ratonga pēnei i te Student Volunteer Army te āwhina i a koe me ngā whakatakanga, ā, ka taea pea e Te Tari Hiranga Tangata te āwhina me ngā utunga. He tāngata anō i tō kāinga tērā pea e hiahiatia ana he āwhina tāpiri, he tautoko rānei? Kōrero ki tētahi kaitiaki i rō whare kia mātua whakarite koe e whakaae ana ia ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i te hiahia ki te noho taratahi. Me whakarite mahere mēnā he tikanga tiri tamaiti tāu. Kōrero ki tō kura, tō mahi, ngā rōpū me ngā whatunga hapori ki te rapu he aha tā rātou mahere - e hiahia ana rātou i ētahi mea i a koe? Ka taea e rātou te tautoko i a koe? Whakarite me pēhea te whakamōhio i ētahi atu, e noho taratahi ana tō kāinga - tērā pea he tohu i tō kūaha, tō taiapa rānei. Whakaritea he wāhi i waho i tō kūaha me te patuero, pene me te pepa, he waehere QR rānei kia taea e te hunga te tuhi i ā rātou taipitopito mēnā e āwhina ana rātou me ngā takanga pākore. Mēnā e āwhina ana ētahi me ngā whakatakanga pākore, ka hiahia koe kia pātuhi rātou, tuku karere rānei i mua i te taenga ake? Pēhia te haona o te motukā mai i te kēti? Me haere mā tētahi tomokanga kua whakaaetia? Me tuhi i ngā tohutohu ā-kāinga ka taea e tētahi atu te whai mēnā ka māuiui koe. Me uru ngā tohutohu mō te whāngai mōkai, utu nama, te whāngai i ngā tipu hoki. Me whai whakaaro, me kōrero rānei me pēhea te whakaiti i te tūpono tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 puta noa i tō kāinga. Ka taea e koe te whakaiti i ngā wāhi tiri, te whakanui rānei i te mahi horoi? Tirohia ngā mea e hiahiatia ana e koe hei āwhina i a koe me te hunga kei tō taha Whakaritea he rārangi o ngā mōhiohio o te whānau - me uru ngā ingoa, te pakeke, ngā nama tautuhi hauora (NHI), ngā āhuatanga hauora me ngā rongoā e kaingia ana, ngā rongoā rānei ka hiahia ia tangata katoa. Me uru ngā mōhiohio whakapā ohotata pēnei i tō tākuta, ngā hāora pō, me ētahi atu tari tautoko. Kohia ngā mea e pārekareka ana ki a koe. He aha ētahi āwhinatanga hei aukati i te takeotanga mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe? Me mātua whakarite kia mōhio ngā tino tāngata me aha rātou Me whakarite hui ā-kainga, kia mātua mōhio te katoa (tae atu ki ngā mea tamariki) me aha rātou, me pēhea te tautoko tētahi i tētahi, ā, me whakapā atu ki a wai mēnā ka māuiuitia tētahi, ka kawea rānei ki te hōhipera. Tiria tō mahere ki te whānau whānui, ngā hoa noho tata me ngā manuhiri auau, ā, kōrero ki a rātou he aha tō hiahia mai i a rātou, ā, me pēhea tā koutou tautoko tētahi i tētahi. Kei roto tātou katoa i tēnei tū āhua, ā, ka puta tahi tātou i tēnei tū āhua Me noho tūhonohono - me huihui tonu ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Mēnā e noho taratahi ana, me tū ēnei hui i runga ipurangi, mā te waea rānei. Tautokona ō hoa, tō whānau me ō hoamahi ki te whakarite i ā rātou ake mahere kia takatū ai. Me rapu e aha ana tō hapori - he rōpū anō kei te taka kai hei whakamātao, e tiri ana i ngā tīwhiri whakamahere, e mōhio ana rānei ki ngā karere o te wā? Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tautoko | Support Te toro atu ki ngā kai, ki ngā mea waiwai rānei | Access to food or essential items --- Section Separator --- Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Mō ngā pouaka kai ohauru haere ki: My Food Bag (external link) ki Hello Fresh (external link) rānei Mō ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha haere ki: Countdown (external link) ki New World (external link) rānei. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Ko te tikanga me pānga kore ngā kawenga, me paetata hoki. Mēnā kei te kawe rawa koe, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti, me te mau ārai waha. Mēnā ka kawea atu ō rawa, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti i te hunga kawe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, horoia me te patuero i o ringa kia mutu te whakaputu i ngā kai. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko pūtea KOWHEORI-19 i te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 ki te kite i ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe. Haere ki: www.workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (mō ētahi atu mōhiohio) my.msd.govt.nz (external link) (hei tono tuihono ki Te Hiranga Tangata) 0800 559 009 (MSD Waea Whānui) 0800 552 002 (MSD Kaumātua 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Ngā Ākonga StudyLink) COVID-19 Financial Support Tool (te rauemi PUtea Tautoko KOWHEORI-19) Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Mō ngā pouaka kai ohauru haere ki: My Food Bag (external link) ki Hello Fresh (external link) rānei Mō ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha haere ki: Countdown (external link) ki New World (external link) rānei. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Ko te tikanga me pānga kore ngā kawenga, me paetata hoki. Mēnā kei te kawe rawa koe, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti, me te mau ārai waha. Mēnā ka kawea atu ō rawa, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti i te hunga kawe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, horoia me te patuero i o ringa kia mutu te whakaputu i ngā kai. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko pūtea KOWHEORI-19 i te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 ki te kite i ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe. Haere ki: www.workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (mō ētahi atu mōhiohio) my.msd.govt.nz (external link) (hei tono tuihono ki Te Hiranga Tangata) 0800 559 009 (MSD Waea Whānui) 0800 552 002 (MSD Kaumātua 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Ngā Ākonga StudyLink) COVID-19 Financial Support Tool (te rauemi PUtea Tautoko KOWHEORI-19) Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tautoko | Support Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families --- Section Separator --- Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: Me noho tūhono tonu ki ngā hoa me te whānau - he mea nui tēnei mō tō tātou oranga, ā, he āwhina kia noho haumaru ake, kia iti iho te pōkaikaha, me te iti iho te anipā. Me whāki i ō kare ā-roto - he rongo māori noa te rongo i te wairua haukerekere, pōkaikaha, anipā, māharahara, mataku rānei. Whakawāteatia he wā e aro ai koe, e whakaputa ai koe i ō kare ā-roto. Me whai tonu i ngā hātepe mēnā ka taea - me ngana ki te hanga i ngā whakaritenga auau i tō tauoranga, ā, kaua e whakapiki i ngā ritenga hauora-kore pēnei i te kai hāneanea, te inu, te kai paipa me te rehutupeka. Tirohia ētahi atu tāngata e hiahia āwhina ana pea - mā te toro atu o te ringa ki te hunga e pōkaikahatia ana pea, e māharahara ana rānei ka āwhina pea i a kōrua tahi. Whakawhāitihia tō wā tuihono - kiakotahi, kia rua rānei ō tirohanga ki ngā arapāho me ngā pae pāpori i te rā. E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro He pai noa iho te tono āwhina. I a tātau ka anga whakamua ana, he tāngata, he rōpū anō kei reira hei tautoko i a koe. Anei ngā tūmomo tohutohu, āwhina, tautoko hoki mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe. Mēnā kāore koe i te mātau ki te reo Ingarihi, ka āhei koe ki te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina waea atu ki te nuinga o ngā tari kāwanatanga. --- Section Separator --- Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: Me noho tūhono tonu ki ngā hoa me te whānau - he mea nui tēnei mō tō tātou oranga, ā, he āwhina kia noho haumaru ake, kia iti iho te pōkaikaha, me te iti iho te anipā. Me whāki i ō kare ā-roto - he rongo māori noa te rongo i te wairua haukerekere, pōkaikaha, anipā, māharahara, mataku rānei. Whakawāteatia he wā e aro ai koe, e whakaputa ai koe i ō kare ā-roto. Me whai tonu i ngā hātepe mēnā ka taea - me ngana ki te hanga i ngā whakaritenga auau i tō tauoranga, ā, kaua e whakapiki i ngā ritenga hauora-kore pēnei i te kai hāneanea, te inu, te kai paipa me te rehutupeka. Tirohia ētahi atu tāngata e hiahia āwhina ana pea - mā te toro atu o te ringa ki te hunga e pōkaikahatia ana pea, e māharahara ana rānei ka āwhina pea i a kōrua tahi. Whakawhāitihia tō wā tuihono - kiakotahi, kia rua rānei ō tirohanga ki ngā arapāho me ngā pae pāpori i te rā. E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro --- Section Separator --- He pai noa iho te tono āwhina. I a tātau ka anga whakamua ana, he tāngata, he rōpū anō kei reira hei tautoko i a koe. Anei ngā tūmomo tohutohu, āwhina, tautoko hoki mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe. Mēnā kāore koe i te mātau ki te reo Ingarihi, ka āhei koe ki te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina waea atu ki te nuinga o ngā tari kāwanatanga. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Ngā wāhi whaipānga | Locations of interest --- Section Separator --- Ina puta he take hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19 i te hapori, ka whakahoutia e Te Manatū Hauora tana pae tukutuku ki ngā wāhi i kitea ētahi kēhi tūturu o te KOWHEORI-19, ā ka kīia ēnei he ʻWāhi Whaipānga’. He mea nui tonu kia hihiratia mēnā i tae koe ki tētahi wāhi whaipānga i te wā i whakatauhia. Mēnā i tae koe, ka tuhia ngā mōhiohio i te taha o ia wāhi whaipānga o ngā mahi hei whai māhau. Ko ngā mahi me mahi koe kei te āhua o te mōrearea whakaraerae i ia wāhi. Mēnā kāore koe i tae ki tētahi o aua wāhi, ka tae kē atu ki tētahi o aua wāhi engari kīhai i reira i te wā i whakatauhia, me aroturuki koe i tō hauora, ā, me haere kia whakamātauria anake mēnā e whakaatu ana koe i ētahi tohumate. Ngā wāhi whaipānga (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ina puta he take hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19 i te hapori, ka whakahoutia e Te Manatū Hauora tana pae tukutuku ki ngā wāhi i kitea ētahi kēhi tūturu o te KOWHEORI-19, ā ka kīia ēnei he ʻWāhi Whaipānga’. He mea nui tonu kia hihiratia mēnā i tae koe ki tētahi wāhi whaipānga i te wā i whakatauhia. Mēnā i tae koe, ka tuhia ngā mōhiohio i te taha o ia wāhi whaipānga o ngā mahi hei whai māhau. Ko ngā mahi me mahi koe kei te āhua o te mōrearea whakaraerae i ia wāhi. Mēnā kāore koe i tae ki tētahi o aua wāhi, ka tae kē atu ki tētahi o aua wāhi engari kīhai i reira i te wā i whakatauhia, me aroturuki koe i tō hauora, ā, me haere kia whakamātauria anake mēnā e whakaatu ana koe i ētahi tohumate. Ngā wāhi whaipānga (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: kua hoki mai koe i tāwāhi i nā tata nei kua pā atu koe ki tētahi kua hoki mai i tāwāhi i nā tata nei he whakapānga tata koe nō tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: kua hoki mai koe i tāwāhi i nā tata nei kua pā atu koe ki tētahi kua hoki mai i tāwāhi i nā tata nei he whakapānga tata koe nō tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19, i te wā e tuku ana i ngā herekoretanga nui ake ki te hunga whai tohu ārai mate. --- Section Separator --- He whakamahi i tētahi aronga 3 taumata hei whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori: Kākāriki – ka whakamahia ina iti noa te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori, ka taea te whakahaere te hunga kei rō hōhipera, ka taea e te pūnaha hauora te urupare. Karaka – ka whakamahia ina piki haere ana te rere ā-hapori o te KOWHEORI-19, e whakapaua ana ngā rawa a te pūnaha haora katoa ki te whakahaere i te urutā, kei te piki haere te mōrea ki te iwi whānui. Whero – e whakamahia ana ina hiahiatia ana kia whakamarutia te pūnaha hauora me te whakamaru i ngā taupori noho mōrea. I ngā taumata katoa, ka noho tuwhera te nuinga o ngā pakihi, ngā toa hokohoko me ngā whakanōhanga tūmatanui ki te hunga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko ngā pakihi ka tuwhera anake ki ngā kiritaki whiwhi kano ārai mate he iti iho te mōrea. --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Te ora i te Karaka | Life at Orange --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, ka taea e koe te mahi tonu i ngā mahi ia rā, ā, ka taea e koe te hāereere i te motu. Ka taea e koe te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura, ki ngā whare whakapakari tinana, te whare karakia, ngā whare kai, me ētahi atu wāhi huhua. Tērā ētahi herenga i runga i ētahi mahi hei pupuru i te i te horanga o te huaketo me te tiaki i te hunga whakaraerae. Ka taea e te nuinga o ngā pakihi te whakatuwhera me te kore herenga i runga i ngā tatauranga mēnā ka kōwhiri rātou ki te whakamahi i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Ina kore rātou e kōwhiri ki te whakamahi i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, he herenga i runga i te maha o ngā tāngata i te wāhi kotahi. I raro i te Pūnaha Whakamaru Kowheori-19, kua kore katoa ngā mirumiru kāinga. Ko te My Vaccine Pass he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ko te whakahau a te ture me whakaatu koe i tō Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki ngā wāhi e whai ana i ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate. Ka uru pea ki tēnei ngā wāhi manaaki, ngā takahanga, ngā huihuinga me ngā whare whakapakari tinana. Kāore e taea te tono i a koe kia whakaaturia tō Tohu Ārai Mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui, me te hauora waiwai. My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Karaka me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā ārai kanohi Ko wai te hunga kāore e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi? Mēnā kua raru tō whiwhinga moni i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tautoko ā-moni. Ka māraurau pea koe mēnā: i whakakorea tō mahi nā runga i tō kore whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i whakahekea tō moni whiwhi, kāore rānei e taea e koe te mahi nā ngā herenga o te KOWHEORI me haere kia whakamātauria koe mō te KOWHEORI-19 me noho taratahi me whai āwhinatanga ki ngā utunga waiwai Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Ka taea e nga pakihi me nga wāhi mahi te huaki i te Karaka. E āhei ana te katoa ki te whiwhi i ngā matea waiwai pēnei i te kai, te tiaki hauora, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui me te whakaruruhau ohotata. Nā tēnei take, ka noho tuwhera tonu ētahi pakihi pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā toa, ngā kēmehi me ētahi atu, i raro i ngā whakaritenga rama toru, ā, me te kore anō e tono ki te whakaatu i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Mēnā e whakamahi ana tētahi pakihi i te Tohu Ārai Mate, me hihira te pakihi i ēnei, ā, e whakahaua ana kia matawaitia mā te taupānga Manatoko. Mēnā kāore te pakihi e whakamahi ana i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, tērā pea he herenga kei runga i tērā. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Mēnā kei te whakahaere koe i tētahi takahanga, tētahi hui rānei, me mātua whakarite: e whāia ana ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata e mau ana ngā tāngata i ngā ārai kanohi i te wā tika kia auau te horoi i ngā mata. Ka taea ngā huihuinga i te Karaka, pēnei i te tūtataki hoa, te mārena me te haere ki te whare karakia mēnā ka whakamahi koe i Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ka taea e koe te whakarato kai me te inu i tō huihuinga. Mēnā nōu katoa te whare manaaki mō tō huihuinga, ehara i te mea me whai koe i ngā ture manaaki o te whakarato kai me te inu. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua, ngā whare pāpori me ngā hōhipera i te Karaka. Engari, me pātai anō i ia wāhi e haere nā koe mēnā he herenga anō o taua wāhi. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ō hoa me tō whānau i te whare herehere, engari me ētahi herenga. Me whiwhi rawa ngā manuhiri ki ngā whare herehere i tētahi pota o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, neke atu rānei. Ka tuwhera ngā whare mātauranga i te Karaka. E akiakitia ana ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki, te whānau, me ētahi atu manuhiri katoa ki te mau ārai kanohi i te kura. E kore e taea te aukati i ngā tamariki, ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki rānei o te tamaiti, ākonga rānei, mai i te haere ki te kura, ki ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga rānei i runga anō i tōna tūnga kano ārai mate. I nga wāhi mātauranga, me tino wero rawa ētahi tāngata kia whakapā ki nga tamariki me nga ākonga. Ka uru ki tēnei ko ngā kaiako, ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakaako i rō kāinga, ngā kaitautoko i ngā kura me ngā pokapū ako kōhungahunga, tae atu ki ngā kaitūao, ngā kaiāwhina, ngā kaiwhakahaere me ngā kaimahi tiaki i te kura, ngā kaikirimana, me ngā manuhiri (i tua atu i ngā mātua, te whānau, ngā kaitiaki rānei o ngā ākonga). Ka taea e ngā ākonga mātauranga tuatoru te haere ki ngā momo akoranga katoa. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e tatari ana mō te hua o tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, kua tonoa rānei kia noho taratahi, tēnā noho ki te kāinga, ā, kaua e haere ki tō kura. Me whakarato tō kura, whare mātauranga tuatoru rānei i ngā kōwhiringa ako mamao mēhemea ka mate koe ki te noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā kaupapa hākinakina me te tākaro hākinakina i te Karaka, me ngā herenga. Ka uru ngā tamariki ki ngā tepenga tāngata, engari anō ngā kaimahi. Ka haere koe ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Karaka . Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tētahi tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mahia i te 72 hāora iti ake rānei i mua o tō haerenga, i mua i tō pikinga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau. Kāore e wātea ana ngā whakamātautau mō te hāereere i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori. Ina hiahia koe i tētahi whakamātautau mō tēnei take, māhau e whakarite, ā, māhau anō e utu. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me whai tohu ārai mate koe, hua tōraro rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, māna, e herea ana e te kaiwhakahaere waka kawe. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi wāhi whakaritenga kē, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi.Mēnā he nui ngā wāhi tautohu o tō whare whakahaere kaupapa, me whakarite koe kia kaua aua rōpū e whakawhitiwhiti. Ka rerekē pea te āhua o tēnei i te whakatinanatanga. Hei tauira, tērā pea me whakarite i ngā tomokanga tāuke mō ngā wāhi tiri, me whakarerekē rānei i te wā tīmata. Tērā pea me whakarite i ngā wharepaku rerekē, me te taupaepae rerekē mō ia rōpū. Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, ka taea e koe te mahi tonu i ngā mahi ia rā, ā, ka taea e koe te hāereere i te motu. Ka taea e koe te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura, ki ngā whare whakapakari tinana, te whare karakia, ngā whare kai, me ētahi atu wāhi huhua. Tērā ētahi herenga i runga i ētahi mahi hei pupuru i te i te horanga o te huaketo me te tiaki i te hunga whakaraerae. Ka taea e te nuinga o ngā pakihi te whakatuwhera me te kore herenga i runga i ngā tatauranga mēnā ka kōwhiri rātou ki te whakamahi i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Ina kore rātou e kōwhiri ki te whakamahi i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, he herenga i runga i te maha o ngā tāngata i te wāhi kotahi. I raro i te Pūnaha Whakamaru Kowheori-19, kua kore katoa ngā mirumiru kāinga. Ko te My Vaccine Pass he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ko te whakahau a te ture me whakaatu koe i tō Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki ngā wāhi e whai ana i ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate. Ka uru pea ki tēnei ngā wāhi manaaki, ngā takahanga, ngā huihuinga me ngā whare whakapakari tinana. Kāore e taea te tono i a koe kia whakaaturia tō Tohu Ārai Mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui, me te hauora waiwai. My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Karaka me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā ārai kanohi Ko wai te hunga kāore e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi? Mēnā kua raru tō whiwhinga moni i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tautoko ā-moni. Ka māraurau pea koe mēnā: i whakakorea tō mahi nā runga i tō kore whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i whakahekea tō moni whiwhi, kāore rānei e taea e koe te mahi nā ngā herenga o te KOWHEORI me haere kia whakamātauria koe mō te KOWHEORI-19 me noho taratahi me whai āwhinatanga ki ngā utunga waiwai Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Ka taea e nga pakihi me nga wāhi mahi te huaki i te Karaka. E āhei ana te katoa ki te whiwhi i ngā matea waiwai pēnei i te kai, te tiaki hauora, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui me te whakaruruhau ohotata. Nā tēnei take, ka noho tuwhera tonu ētahi pakihi pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā toa, ngā kēmehi me ētahi atu, i raro i ngā whakaritenga rama toru, ā, me te kore anō e tono ki te whakaatu i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Mēnā e whakamahi ana tētahi pakihi i te Tohu Ārai Mate, me hihira te pakihi i ēnei, ā, e whakahaua ana kia matawaitia mā te taupānga Manatoko. Mēnā kāore te pakihi e whakamahi ana i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, tērā pea he herenga kei runga i tērā. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Mēnā kei te whakahaere koe i tētahi takahanga, tētahi hui rānei, me mātua whakarite: e whāia ana ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata e mau ana ngā tāngata i ngā ārai kanohi i te wā tika kia auau te horoi i ngā mata. Ka taea ngā huihuinga i te Karaka, pēnei i te tūtataki hoa, te mārena me te haere ki te whare karakia mēnā ka whakamahi koe i Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ka taea e koe te whakarato kai me te inu i tō huihuinga. Mēnā nōu katoa te whare manaaki mō tō huihuinga, ehara i te mea me whai koe i ngā ture manaaki o te whakarato kai me te inu. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua, ngā whare pāpori me ngā hōhipera i te Karaka. Engari, me pātai anō i ia wāhi e haere nā koe mēnā he herenga anō o taua wāhi. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ō hoa me tō whānau i te whare herehere, engari me ētahi herenga. Me whiwhi rawa ngā manuhiri ki ngā whare herehere i tētahi pota o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, neke atu rānei. Ka tuwhera ngā whare mātauranga i te Karaka. E akiakitia ana ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki, te whānau, me ētahi atu manuhiri katoa ki te mau ārai kanohi i te kura. E kore e taea te aukati i ngā tamariki, ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki rānei o te tamaiti, ākonga rānei, mai i te haere ki te kura, ki ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga rānei i runga anō i tōna tūnga kano ārai mate. I nga wāhi mātauranga, me tino wero rawa ētahi tāngata kia whakapā ki nga tamariki me nga ākonga. Ka uru ki tēnei ko ngā kaiako, ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakaako i rō kāinga, ngā kaitautoko i ngā kura me ngā pokapū ako kōhungahunga, tae atu ki ngā kaitūao, ngā kaiāwhina, ngā kaiwhakahaere me ngā kaimahi tiaki i te kura, ngā kaikirimana, me ngā manuhiri (i tua atu i ngā mātua, te whānau, ngā kaitiaki rānei o ngā ākonga). Ka taea e ngā ākonga mātauranga tuatoru te haere ki ngā momo akoranga katoa. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e tatari ana mō te hua o tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, kua tonoa rānei kia noho taratahi, tēnā noho ki te kāinga, ā, kaua e haere ki tō kura. Me whakarato tō kura, whare mātauranga tuatoru rānei i ngā kōwhiringa ako mamao mēhemea ka mate koe ki te noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā kaupapa hākinakina me te tākaro hākinakina i te Karaka, me ngā herenga. Ka uru ngā tamariki ki ngā tepenga tāngata, engari anō ngā kaimahi. Ka haere koe ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Karaka . Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tētahi tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mahia i te 72 hāora iti ake rānei i mua o tō haerenga, i mua i tō pikinga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau. Kāore e wātea ana ngā whakamātautau mō te hāereere i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori. Ina hiahia koe i tētahi whakamātautau mō tēnei take, māhau e whakarite, ā, māhau anō e utu. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me whai tohu ārai mate koe, hua tōraro rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, māna, e herea ana e te kaiwhakahaere waka kawe. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi wāhi whakaritenga kē, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi.Mēnā he nui ngā wāhi tautohu o tō whare whakahaere kaupapa, me whakarite koe kia kaua aua rōpū e whakawhitiwhiti. Ka rerekē pea te āhua o tēnei i te whakatinanatanga. Hei tauira, tērā pea me whakarite i ngā tomokanga tāuke mō ngā wāhi tiri, me whakarerekē rānei i te wā tīmata. Tērā pea me whakarite i ngā wharepaku rerekē, me te taupaepae rerekē mō ia rōpū. Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Te ora i te Whero | Life at Red --- Section Separator --- He herenga kei runga i ngā wāhi e taea e tātou te haere ake i te Whero. Engari tērā anō ngā mahi o ia rā ka taea e tātou katoa. Ka taea e tātou te tūtataki ki ngā hoa me te whānau, i roto, i waho hoki, te haere ki te hoko taputapu, te haere ki te kura me te hāereere. Ka tino kaha ake te tiaki i a koe anō mai i te KOWHEORI-19 i te whiwhi wero. Mēnā he pakeke atu koe i te 18 tau, ā, kua 3 marama mai i tō whiwhi i tō whiwhi i te potanga matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e āhei ana koe ki tētahi potanga whakakaha. Rapua he kōrero atu anō mō ngā potanga whakakaha Ko te My Vaccine Pass he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ko te whakahau a te ture me whakaatu koe i tō Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki ngā wāhi e whai ana i ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate. Ka uru pea ki tēnei ngā wāhi manaaki, ngā takahanga, ngā huihuinga me ngā whare whakapakari tinana. Kāore e taea te tono i a koe kia whakaaturia tō Tohu Ārai Mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui, me te hauora waiwai. My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19. E whakahau ana mātau i a koe kia mau ārai kanohi koe ina wehe koe i te kāinga. Ko te ārai kanohi me mau ki te māhunga mā ngā here e huri ana i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Arā, tē taea ngā kāmeta, tākai, tī-hāte rānei te whakamahi. I te Whero me mātua mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga waka rererangi i te motu i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i runga tēkehi me ngā waka tuari waka haere i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi tūmatanui/whakaurunga (kaua ngā hōpua kaukau) i ngā kēmihi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā wāhi ratonga hauora i ngā whakanōhanga tiaki kaumātua i rō kura, hei tauira i tētahi akomanga me ngā whakaminenga. Kei roto i tēnei ko ngā Tau 4 ki te 13 me ngā kaimahi i rō whakanōhanga mātauranga matua ina haere ki tētahi kura kōhungahunga rēhita i tētahi pakihi kai me te inu, ngā pakihi e pātata ai te tangata (hei tauira, ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā toa whakaatahua), ngā taiopenga me ngā huihuinga. Ka āhei koe ki te tango i tō ārai kanohi ki te kai, te inu me te korikori tinana. E tino whakahautia ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ētahi atu wāhi katoa ka haere koe. Rapu kōrero atu anō mō ngā ārai kanohi Mēnā kua raru tō whiwhinga moni i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tautoko ā-moni. Ka māraurau pea koe mēnā: i whakakorea tō mahi nā runga i tō kore whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i whakahekea tō moni whiwhi, kāore rānei e taea e koe te mahi nā ngā herenga o te KOWHEORI me haere kia whakamātauria koe mō te KOWHEORI-19 me noho whakamohoao me whai āwhinatanga ki ngā utunga waiwai Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Ka taea e ngā wāhi mahi te huaki i te Whero. Mēnā e tika ana mō tō mahi, ka taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga. Kōrero ki tō kaituku mahi mō te āhuatanga e tika ana mōu. E āhei ana te katoa ki te whiwhi i ngā matea waiwai pēnei i te kai, te tiaki hauora, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui me te whakaruruhau ohotata. Nā tēnei take, ka noho tuwhera tonu ētahi pakihi pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā toa, ngā kēmehi me ētahi atu, i raro i ngā whakaritenga rama toru, ā, me te kore anō e tono ki te whakaatu i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Mēnā e whakamahi ana tētahi pakihi i te Tohu Ārai Mate, me hihira te pakihi i ēnei, ā, e whakahaua ana kia matawaitia mā te taupānga Manatoko. Mēnā kāore te pakihi e whakamahi ana i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, tērā pea he herenga kei runga i tērā. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Mēnā kei te whakahaere koe i tētahi takahanga, tētahi hui rānei, me mātua whakarite: e whāia ana ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata kei te mau ārai kanohi ina whakaritea ana kia auau te horoi i ngā mata. Ka taea ngā huihuinga i te Whero, pēnei i te tūtataki hoa, te mārena me te haere ki te whare karakia mēnā ka whakamahi koe i Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ka taea e koe te whakarato kai me te inu i tō huihuinga. Mēnā nōu katoa te whare manaaki mō tō huihuinga, ehara i te mea me whai koe i ngā ture manaaki o te whakarato kai me te inu. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua, ngā whare pāpori me ngā hōhipera i te Whero. Engari, me pātai anō i ia wāhi e haere nā koe mēnā he herenga anō o taua wāhi. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ō hoa me tō whānau me te kore herenga. Me whiwhi rawa ngā manuhiri ki ngā whare herehere i tētahi pota o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, neke atu rānei. Ka tuwhera ngā whare mātauranga i te Whero. Me mātua mau ārai kanohi ngā ākonga katoa Tau 4, pakeke atu hoki, i rō whare, i runga waka kawe tūmatanui me ngā ratonga waka kawe e utua ana e Te Tāhuhu o te Mātauranga. Me mātua mau ārai kanohi ngā kaimahi me ngā kaiako ina whakaako me te hāpai i ngā Tau 4, pakeke atu hoki. E whakahau ana i ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki, ngā whānau me ētahi atu manuhiri kia mau ārai kanohi i te wāhi. E kore e taea te aukati i ngā tamariki, ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki rānei o te tamaiti, ākonga rānei, mai i te haere ki te kura, ki ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga rānei i runga anō i tōna tūnga kano ārai mate. I nga wāhi mātauranga, me tino wero rawa ētahi tāngata kia whakapā ki nga tamariki me nga ākonga. Ka uru ki tēnei ko ngā kaiako, ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakaako i rō kāinga, ngā kaitautoko i ngā kura me ngā pokapū ako kōhungahunga, tae atu ki ngā kaitūao, ngā kaiāwhina, ngā kaiwhakahaere me ngā kaimahi tiaki i te kura, ngā kaikirimana, me ngā manuhiri (i tua atu i ngā mātua, te whānau, ngā kaitiaki rānei o ngā ākonga). Ka taea e ngā ākonga mātauranga tuatoru te haere ki ngā momo akoranga katoa. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e tatari ana mō te hua o tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, kua tonoa rānei kia noho whakamohoao, tēnā noho ki te kāinga, ā, kaua e haere ki tō kura mātauranga. Me whakarato tō kura, whare mātauranga tuatoru rānei i ngā kōwhiringa ako mamao mēhemea ka mate koe ki te noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā kaupapa hākinakina me te tākaro hākinakina i te Whero, me ngā herenga. Ka uru ngā tamariki ki ngā tepenga tāngata, engari anō ngā kaimahi. Ka āhei koe ki te haere i ngā wāhi katoa ahakoa he aha te take i te Whero. Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tētahi tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mahia i te 72 hāora iti ake rānei i mua o tō haerenga, i mua i tō pikinga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau. Kāore e wātea ana ngā whakamātautau mō te hāereere i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori. Ina hiahia koe i tētahi whakamātautau mō tēnei take, māhau e whakarite, ā, māhau anō e utu. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me whai tohu ārai mate koe, hua tōraro rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, māna, e herea ana e te kaiwhakahaere waka kawe. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi wāhi whakaritenga kē, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi.Mēnā he nui ngā wāhi tautohu o tō whare whakahaere kaupapa, me whakarite koe kia kaua aua rōpū e whakawhitiwhiti. Ka rerekē pea te āhua o tēnei i te whakatinanatanga. Hei tauira, tērā pea me whakarite i ngā tomokanga tāuke mō ngā wāhi tiri, me whakarerekē rānei i te wā tīmata. Tērā pea me whakarite i ngā wharepaku rerekē, me te taupaepae rerekē mō ia rōpū. Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā mata e tiria ai. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111. --- Section Separator --- He herenga kei runga i ngā wāhi e taea e tātou te haere ake i te Whero. Engari tērā anō ngā mahi o ia rā ka taea e tātou katoa. Ka taea e tātou te tūtataki ki ngā hoa me te whānau, i roto, i waho hoki, te haere ki te hoko taputapu, te haere ki te kura me te hāereere. Ka tino kaha ake te tiaki i a koe anō mai i te KOWHEORI-19 i te whiwhi wero. Mēnā he pakeke atu koe i te 18 tau, ā, kua 3 marama mai i tō whiwhi i tō whiwhi i te potanga matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e āhei ana koe ki tētahi potanga whakakaha. Rapua he kōrero atu anō mō ngā potanga whakakaha Ko te My Vaccine Pass he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ko te whakahau a te ture me whakaatu koe i tō Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki ngā wāhi e whai ana i ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate. Ka uru pea ki tēnei ngā wāhi manaaki, ngā takahanga, ngā huihuinga me ngā whare whakapakari tinana. Kāore e taea te tono i a koe kia whakaaturia tō Tohu Ārai Mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui, me te hauora waiwai. My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19. E whakahau ana mātau i a koe kia mau ārai kanohi koe ina wehe koe i te kāinga. Ko te ārai kanohi me mau ki te māhunga mā ngā here e huri ana i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Arā, tē taea ngā kāmeta, tākai, tī-hāte rānei te whakamahi. I te Whero me mātua mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga waka rererangi i te motu i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i runga tēkehi me ngā waka tuari waka haere i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi tūmatanui/whakaurunga (kaua ngā hōpua kaukau) i ngā kēmihi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā wāhi ratonga hauora i ngā whakanōhanga tiaki kaumātua i rō kura, hei tauira i tētahi akomanga me ngā whakaminenga. Kei roto i tēnei ko ngā Tau 4 ki te 13 me ngā kaimahi i rō whakanōhanga mātauranga matua ina haere ki tētahi kura kōhungahunga rēhita i tētahi pakihi kai me te inu, ngā pakihi e pātata ai te tangata (hei tauira, ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā toa whakaatahua), ngā taiopenga me ngā huihuinga. Ka āhei koe ki te tango i tō ārai kanohi ki te kai, te inu me te korikori tinana. E tino whakahautia ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ētahi atu wāhi katoa ka haere koe. Rapu kōrero atu anō mō ngā ārai kanohi Mēnā kua raru tō whiwhinga moni i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tautoko ā-moni. Ka māraurau pea koe mēnā: i whakakorea tō mahi nā runga i tō kore whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i whakahekea tō moni whiwhi, kāore rānei e taea e koe te mahi nā ngā herenga o te KOWHEORI me haere kia whakamātauria koe mō te KOWHEORI-19 me noho whakamohoao me whai āwhinatanga ki ngā utunga waiwai Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Ka taea e ngā wāhi mahi te huaki i te Whero. Mēnā e tika ana mō tō mahi, ka taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga. Kōrero ki tō kaituku mahi mō te āhuatanga e tika ana mōu. E āhei ana te katoa ki te whiwhi i ngā matea waiwai pēnei i te kai, te tiaki hauora, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui me te whakaruruhau ohotata. Nā tēnei take, ka noho tuwhera tonu ētahi pakihi pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā toa, ngā kēmehi me ētahi atu, i raro i ngā whakaritenga rama toru, ā, me te kore anō e tono ki te whakaatu i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Mēnā e whakamahi ana tētahi pakihi i te Tohu Ārai Mate, me hihira te pakihi i ēnei, ā, e whakahaua ana kia matawaitia mā te taupānga Manatoko. Mēnā kāore te pakihi e whakamahi ana i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, tērā pea he herenga kei runga i tērā. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Mēnā kei te whakahaere koe i tētahi takahanga, tētahi hui rānei, me mātua whakarite: e whāia ana ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata kei te mau ārai kanohi ina whakaritea ana kia auau te horoi i ngā mata. Ka taea ngā huihuinga i te Whero, pēnei i te tūtataki hoa, te mārena me te haere ki te whare karakia mēnā ka whakamahi koe i Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ka taea e koe te whakarato kai me te inu i tō huihuinga. Mēnā nōu katoa te whare manaaki mō tō huihuinga, ehara i te mea me whai koe i ngā ture manaaki o te whakarato kai me te inu. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua, ngā whare pāpori me ngā hōhipera i te Whero. Engari, me pātai anō i ia wāhi e haere nā koe mēnā he herenga anō o taua wāhi. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ō hoa me tō whānau me te kore herenga. Me whiwhi rawa ngā manuhiri ki ngā whare herehere i tētahi pota o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, neke atu rānei. Ka tuwhera ngā whare mātauranga i te Whero. Me mātua mau ārai kanohi ngā ākonga katoa Tau 4, pakeke atu hoki, i rō whare, i runga waka kawe tūmatanui me ngā ratonga waka kawe e utua ana e Te Tāhuhu o te Mātauranga. Me mātua mau ārai kanohi ngā kaimahi me ngā kaiako ina whakaako me te hāpai i ngā Tau 4, pakeke atu hoki. E whakahau ana i ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki, ngā whānau me ētahi atu manuhiri kia mau ārai kanohi i te wāhi. E kore e taea te aukati i ngā tamariki, ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki rānei o te tamaiti, ākonga rānei, mai i te haere ki te kura, ki ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga rānei i runga anō i tōna tūnga kano ārai mate. I nga wāhi mātauranga, me tino wero rawa ētahi tāngata kia whakapā ki nga tamariki me nga ākonga. Ka uru ki tēnei ko ngā kaiako, ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakaako i rō kāinga, ngā kaitautoko i ngā kura me ngā pokapū ako kōhungahunga, tae atu ki ngā kaitūao, ngā kaiāwhina, ngā kaiwhakahaere me ngā kaimahi tiaki i te kura, ngā kaikirimana, me ngā manuhiri (i tua atu i ngā mātua, te whānau, ngā kaitiaki rānei o ngā ākonga). Ka taea e ngā ākonga mātauranga tuatoru te haere ki ngā momo akoranga katoa. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e tatari ana mō te hua o tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, kua tonoa rānei kia noho whakamohoao, tēnā noho ki te kāinga, ā, kaua e haere ki tō kura mātauranga. Me whakarato tō kura, whare mātauranga tuatoru rānei i ngā kōwhiringa ako mamao mēhemea ka mate koe ki te noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā kaupapa hākinakina me te tākaro hākinakina i te Whero, me ngā herenga. Ka uru ngā tamariki ki ngā tepenga tāngata, engari anō ngā kaimahi. Ka āhei koe ki te haere i ngā wāhi katoa ahakoa he aha te take i te Whero. Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tētahi tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mahia i te 72 hāora iti ake rānei i mua o tō haerenga, i mua i tō pikinga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau. Kāore e wātea ana ngā whakamātautau mō te hāereere i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori. Ina hiahia koe i tētahi whakamātautau mō tēnei take, māhau e whakarite, ā, māhau anō e utu. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me whai tohu ārai mate koe, hua tōraro rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, māna, e herea ana e te kaiwhakahaere waka kawe. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi wāhi whakaritenga kē, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi.Mēnā he nui ngā wāhi tautohu o tō whare whakahaere kaupapa, me whakarite koe kia kaua aua rōpū e whakawhitiwhiti. Ka rerekē pea te āhua o tēnei i te whakatinanatanga. Hei tauira, tērā pea me whakarite i ngā tomokanga tāuke mō ngā wāhi tiri, me whakarerekē rānei i te wā tīmata. Tērā pea me whakarite i ngā wharepaku rerekē, me te taupaepae rerekē mō ia rōpū. Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā mata e tiria ai. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel Te hāereere i Aotearoa | Travel around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- I ngā tautuhinga pūnaha rama toru katoa, ka taea e koe te hāereere ki ngā wāhi katoa o Aotearoa, ahakoa te take. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tētahi wāhi e rerekē ana te tautuhinga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā ture mō taua wāhi. Hei tauira, mēnā ka haere koe mai i te Karaka ki Whero, me whai koe i ngā ture mō tētahi rohe Whero. Ko te tikanga, e kore koe e mate ki te kawe i tētahi Tohu Ārai Mate, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei ki te hāereere. Tērā pea ka hiahia ētahi umanga kawe tangata(hei tauira, ngā rererangi, ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa) kia whakaatu koe i te Tohu Ārai Mate, i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 pānga kore rānei. Ehara i te mea me whiwhi Tohu Ārai Mate koe, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei i te wā e haere ana mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui. Me kaua e haere mēnā kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi, e tatari ana rānei mō ngā hua o tētahi whakamātautau. Mō ngā rama toru My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ngā whakamātautau I mua i tō haerenga, me whakarite me aha koe mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e haere ana. Me uru ki tō mahere me pēhea e hoki ai koe ki te kāinga me pēhea te hoko hinu mai (me tū koe i ngā whare hinu pākore anake) ngā mea ka hiahia koe ki te whakaiti i te rahinga o ngā tūnga Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Ina māuiuitia koe, ka whakaraerae rānei koe ki te KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e ngaro ana i te kāinga, me: waea ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu whakamātautau noho taratahi i tō wāhi noho mēnā he tohumate āu, kia whiwhi rā anō i te hua o te whakamātautau. waea ki 111 mēnā e hiahia ana koe i te āwhinatanga hauora kohuki, mēnā rānei he uaua ki a koe te hēhē. Whāki atu e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 Ki te tohu ake tō whakamātautau e pāngia ana koe, ka whakapā atu tētahi mātanga hauora ki a koe. Ka taea e koe te kōrerorero i ngā āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, ā, mēnā he haumaru anō mōu ki te hoki ki te kāinga. E kore e taea e koe te hoki mā te rererangi, te hautū waka ki tawhiti mehemea me moe mō te pō, me haere mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui rānei. Ka taea anake e koe te hoki ki te kāinga ki te noho taratahi mēnā e haumaru ana taua mahi. Kia mahara ake ki te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi i tae koe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, me tū tīrara. Ina kore e taea e koe te hoki haumaru atu ki te kāinga, me noho tonu koe i te wāhi kei konā koe.Ka wātea tonu ki a koe te tautoko ki te noho taratahi, hei wāhi o te hōtaka Care in the Community. Me whakamōhio koe i te kaipupuri/kaiwhakahaere o tō wāhi noho mēnā he pānga tata koe o tētahi kēhi, mēnā rānei koe i whakahoki i tētahi whakamātautau e tohu ana kua pāngia koe. He aha ngā tūmanakohanga i a koe e noho taratahi ana I a koe e hāereere ana, me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga manurere i runga i ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga (hei tauira, ngā taunga rererangi) i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i runga motokā tiri E whakatenatenahia ana hoki te mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā ka wehe koe i te kāinga. Kua whakaturehia te mau ārai kanohi hoki i ētahi wāhi, i runga anō i ētahi o ngā tautuhinga rama toru. Me mātua mōhio koe ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i tō haerenga. Hei aukati te horapatanga anamata o te KOWHEORI-19, me whaiwhai i ngā pānga o te hunga whakaraerae ki te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ka wāwāhi i te hono o te rerenga. Mā te kapo ake i ngā nekenekehanga o te tangata tātou e āwhina ki te mahi wawe, mahi whāomo i tēnei. Me whaiwhai i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te tikiake i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i te App Store (external link) , i Google Play (external link) rānei, mā te whakamahi rānei i tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer. Tīkina ake tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] Rapua ētahi atu kōrero e pā ana ki te whaiwhai pānga Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- I ngā tautuhinga pūnaha rama toru katoa, ka taea e koe te hāereere ki ngā wāhi katoa o Aotearoa, ahakoa te take. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tētahi wāhi e rerekē ana te tautuhinga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā ture mō taua wāhi. Hei tauira, mēnā ka haere koe mai i te Karaka ki Whero, me whai koe i ngā ture mō tētahi rohe Whero. Ko te tikanga, e kore koe e mate ki te kawe i tētahi Tohu Ārai Mate, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei ki te hāereere. Tērā pea ka hiahia ētahi umanga kawe tangata(hei tauira, ngā rererangi, ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa) kia whakaatu koe i te Tohu Ārai Mate, i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 pānga kore rānei. Ehara i te mea me whiwhi Tohu Ārai Mate koe, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei i te wā e haere ana mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui. Me kaua e haere mēnā kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi, e tatari ana rānei mō ngā hua o tētahi whakamātautau. Mō ngā rama toru My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ngā whakamātautau I mua i tō haerenga, me whakarite me aha koe mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e haere ana. Me uru ki tō mahere me pēhea e hoki ai koe ki te kāinga me pēhea te hoko hinu mai (me tū koe i ngā whare hinu pākore anake) ngā mea ka hiahia koe ki te whakaiti i te rahinga o ngā tūnga Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Ina māuiuitia koe, ka whakaraerae rānei koe ki te KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e ngaro ana i te kāinga, me: waea ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu whakamātautau noho taratahi i tō wāhi noho mēnā he tohumate āu, kia whiwhi rā anō i te hua o te whakamātautau. waea ki 111 mēnā e hiahia ana koe i te āwhinatanga hauora kohuki, mēnā rānei he uaua ki a koe te hēhē. Whāki atu e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 Ki te tohu ake tō whakamātautau e pāngia ana koe, ka whakapā atu tētahi mātanga hauora ki a koe. Ka taea e koe te kōrerorero i ngā āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, ā, mēnā he haumaru anō mōu ki te hoki ki te kāinga. E kore e taea e koe te hoki mā te rererangi, te hautū waka ki tawhiti mehemea me moe mō te pō, me haere mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui rānei. Ka taea anake e koe te hoki ki te kāinga ki te noho taratahi mēnā e haumaru ana taua mahi. Kia mahara ake ki te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi i tae koe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, me tū tīrara. Ina kore e taea e koe te hoki haumaru atu ki te kāinga, me noho tonu koe i te wāhi kei konā koe.Ka wātea tonu ki a koe te tautoko ki te noho taratahi, hei wāhi o te hōtaka Care in the Community. Me whakamōhio koe i te kaipupuri/kaiwhakahaere o tō wāhi noho mēnā he pānga tata koe o tētahi kēhi, mēnā rānei koe i whakahoki i tētahi whakamātautau e tohu ana kua pāngia koe. He aha ngā tūmanakohanga i a koe e noho taratahi ana I a koe e hāereere ana, me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga manurere i runga i ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga (hei tauira, ngā taunga rererangi) i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i runga motokā tiri E whakatenatenahia ana hoki te mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā ka wehe koe i te kāinga. Kua whakaturehia te mau ārai kanohi hoki i ētahi wāhi, i runga anō i ētahi o ngā tautuhinga rama toru. Me mātua mōhio koe ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i tō haerenga. Hei aukati te horapatanga anamata o te KOWHEORI-19, me whaiwhai i ngā pānga o te hunga whakaraerae ki te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ka wāwāhi i te hono o te rerenga. Mā te kapo ake i ngā nekenekehanga o te tangata tātou e āwhina ki te mahi wawe, mahi whāomo i tēnei. Me whaiwhai i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te tikiake i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i te App Store (external link) , i Google Play (external link) rānei, mā te whakamahi rānei i tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer. Tīkina ake tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] Rapua ētahi atu kōrero e pā ana ki te whaiwhai pānga Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Haere kia werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate kore utu ināianei, ā, ka wete i ngā here ki ngā mea e arohatia ana e koe mā Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi.
Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ka taea e koe te whiwhi i te pota āpiti o te kano ārai mate Pfizer mēnā kua hipa te 3 marama mai i tō pota tuarua. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ka taea e koe te whiwhi i te pota āpiti o te kano ārai mate Pfizer mēnā kua hipa te 3 marama mai i tō pota tuarua.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine Te whiwhi i tō pota āpiti | Getting your booster dose --- Section Separator --- Mēnā i whiwhi koe i tō kano ārai mate tuarua e 3 marama ki muri, ā, he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau, e āhei ana koe ki te whiwhi pota āpiti o te kano ārai mate. Ehara i te mea he whakature ngā pota āpiti, ā, kāore e hiahiatia ana e riro ai i a koe he Tohu Ārai Mate. Ki te whiwhi koe i tētahi pota āpiti, ka tāpiritia atu ki My Covid Record, ā, ka taea e koe te hanga i tētahi atu Tohu. Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record My Vaccine Pass (Taku tohu ārai mate) Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa mō ngā pota āpiti, ahakoa i whiwhi koe i tētahi kano ārai mate rerekē i āu pota i mua. Ka taea e koe te whiwhi i tētahi pota āpiti mā te: haere ki tētahi whare haumanu kano ārai mate kuhu noa whakarite i tētahi toronga ki tō tākuta, mēnā e tuku ana ia i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 tāpui mā Book My Vaccine, te waea rānei i 0800 28 29 26 mai i te 26 o Whiringa-a-rangi. Book My Vaccine (external link) E whakaatu ana ngā raraunga he 95.6% te whai hua o ngā pota āpiti ki te ārai atu i te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te momo Delta. E whakatauritea ana tēnei ki te hunga kāore i whiwhi i te pota āpiti. I tēnei wā, kāore he raraunga o te roa o te āraitanga mai i te pokenga me te mate i muri mai i te pota āpiti. Mēnā koe i werohia i tāwāhi, ka taea e koe te whiwhi i te pota āpiti Pfizer e 3 marama i muri mai i tō werohanga whakamutunga. Ko te kano ārai mate a Pfizer te pota āpiti e whakahautia ana ahakoa te kano ārai mate i whiwhi koe i ērā o ō pota. E whakahautia ana he pota matua tuatoru mā te hunga awhikiri pahara. He rerekē tēnei i te pota āpiti. Ko te hunga e māraurau ana ki te pota matua tuatoru, ka āhei hoki ki te pota āpiti e 3 marama i muri i te werohanga pota matua tuatoru. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te pota matua tuatoru mēnā he awhikiri pahara tōu (external link) He ōrite ngā pānga kino o ngā pota āpiti ki ērā o ngā pota matua o te kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko te mamae, te whero o te kiri, te kōpuku, i te wāhi wero, te ānini, te paipairuaki me te ngenge, ruha rānei. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā pānga kino (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mēnā i whiwhi koe i tō kano ārai mate tuarua e 3 marama ki muri, ā, he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau, e āhei ana koe ki te whiwhi pota āpiti o te kano ārai mate. Ehara i te mea he whakature ngā pota āpiti, ā, kāore e hiahiatia ana e riro ai i a koe he Tohu Ārai Mate. Ki te whiwhi koe i tētahi pota āpiti, ka tāpiritia atu ki My Covid Record, ā, ka taea e koe te hanga i tētahi atu Tohu. Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record My Vaccine Pass (Taku tohu ārai mate) Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa mō ngā pota āpiti, ahakoa i whiwhi koe i tētahi kano ārai mate rerekē i āu pota i mua. Ka taea e koe te whiwhi i tētahi pota āpiti mā te: haere ki tētahi whare haumanu kano ārai mate kuhu noa whakarite i tētahi toronga ki tō tākuta, mēnā e tuku ana ia i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 tāpui mā Book My Vaccine, te waea rānei i 0800 28 29 26 mai i te 26 o Whiringa-a-rangi. Book My Vaccine (external link) E whakaatu ana ngā raraunga he 95.6% te whai hua o ngā pota āpiti ki te ārai atu i te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te momo Delta. E whakatauritea ana tēnei ki te hunga kāore i whiwhi i te pota āpiti. I tēnei wā, kāore he raraunga o te roa o te āraitanga mai i te pokenga me te mate i muri mai i te pota āpiti. Mēnā koe i werohia i tāwāhi, ka taea e koe te whiwhi i te pota āpiti Pfizer e 3 marama i muri mai i tō werohanga whakamutunga. Ko te kano ārai mate a Pfizer te pota āpiti e whakahautia ana ahakoa te kano ārai mate i whiwhi koe i ērā o ō pota. E whakahautia ana he pota matua tuatoru mā te hunga awhikiri pahara. He rerekē tēnei i te pota āpiti. Ko te hunga e māraurau ana ki te pota matua tuatoru, ka āhei hoki ki te pota āpiti e 3 marama i muri i te werohanga pota matua tuatoru. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te pota matua tuatoru mēnā he awhikiri pahara tōu (external link) He ōrite ngā pānga kino o ngā pota āpiti ki ērā o ngā pota matua o te kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko te mamae, te whero o te kiri, te kōpuku, i te wāhi wero, te ānini, te paipairuaki me te ngenge, ruha rānei. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā pānga kino (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono me te kaupare i ngā tāwaretanga | How to find trustworthy information and avoid scams --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) He nui ngā mōhiohio kei te ipurangi me ngā pae pāpori mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Ka kitea e koe ngā mōhiohio horopū, i takea i runga i ngā mahi pūtaiao hoki, i ēnei wāhi: Ko Te Manatū Hauora te kaiārahi o te pūnaha hauora, hauātanga hoki o Aotearoa, ā, nōna te kawenga whānui mō te whakahaeretanga me te whanaketanga o taua pūnaha. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) He rōpū whakahaere ā-motu a IMAC e noho ana ki te School of Population Health i Te Whare Wānanga o Tāmaki Makaurau. E whakarato ana i ngā mōhiohio motuhake, pono hoki i poua iho ki ngā rangahau pūtaiao o te ao me Aotearoa mō ngā mate ka kauparetia e te kano ārai mate, me ngā hua me ngā mōreareatanga o te tuku awhikiri. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) He umanga te WHO nā Te Rūnanga Whakakotahi i ngā Iwi o te Ao, ā, nōna te kawenga mō te hauora tūmatanui ā-ao. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - WHO (external link) Tērā ētahi āhuatanga matua me mōhio rawa koe mō te kano ārai mate e pā ana ki ngā tāwaretanga: E kore rawa koe e tonoa kia utu mō te kano ārai mate, te uru rānei ki te whakapūmau i tō tūranga tūtira. Ko ngā mōhiohio ōkawa mō te kano ārai mate ka ahu mai i ētahi kaiwhakarato pono o ngā kōrero hauora, pēnei i Te Manatū Hauora, Unite against Covid-19, tō poari hauora ā-rohe (DHB). E kore tētahi kaimahi hauora e toro atu ki a koe i tō kāinga ki te tuku kano ārai mate, māna, i whakaritea ki a koe i mua. E kore koe e tonoa mō ō mōhiohio whaiaro mā te pātuhi, īmēra rānei. Ina kite koe, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ, ā, kaua e whakautu ki te karere. Ina whiwhi īmēra, waea, SMS rānei e tono ana i a koe mō ngā taipitopito ā-tahua e pā ana ki te kano ārai mate, he tāwaretanga tērā. Me wawe te ripoata ki a CERT NZ Ina kite koe i ētahi kōrero teka mō te kano ārai mate, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ (external link) Waihoki, ka taea e koe te waea ki a rātou i te 0800 237 869 . Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tāwaretanga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- He nui ngā mōhiohio kei te ipurangi me ngā pae pāpori mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Ka kitea e koe ngā mōhiohio horopū, i takea i runga i ngā mahi pūtaiao hoki, i ēnei wāhi: Ko Te Manatū Hauora te kaiārahi o te pūnaha hauora, hauātanga hoki o Aotearoa, ā, nōna te kawenga whānui mō te whakahaeretanga me te whanaketanga o taua pūnaha. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) He rōpū whakahaere ā-motu a IMAC e noho ana ki te School of Population Health i Te Whare Wānanga o Tāmaki Makaurau. E whakarato ana i ngā mōhiohio motuhake, pono hoki i poua iho ki ngā rangahau pūtaiao o te ao me Aotearoa mō ngā mate ka kauparetia e te kano ārai mate, me ngā hua me ngā mōreareatanga o te tuku awhikiri. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) He umanga te WHO nā Te Rūnanga Whakakotahi i ngā Iwi o te Ao, ā, nōna te kawenga mō te hauora tūmatanui ā-ao. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - WHO (external link) Tērā ētahi āhuatanga matua me mōhio rawa koe mō te kano ārai mate e pā ana ki ngā tāwaretanga: E kore rawa koe e tonoa kia utu mō te kano ārai mate, te uru rānei ki te whakapūmau i tō tūranga tūtira. Ko ngā mōhiohio ōkawa mō te kano ārai mate ka ahu mai i ētahi kaiwhakarato pono o ngā kōrero hauora, pēnei i Te Manatū Hauora, Unite against Covid-19, tō poari hauora ā-rohe (DHB). E kore tētahi kaimahi hauora e toro atu ki a koe i tō kāinga ki te tuku kano ārai mate, māna, i whakaritea ki a koe i mua. E kore koe e tonoa mō ō mōhiohio whaiaro mā te pātuhi, īmēra rānei. Ina kite koe, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ, ā, kaua e whakautu ki te karere. Ina whiwhi īmēra, waea, SMS rānei e tono ana i a koe mō ngā taipitopito ā-tahua e pā ana ki te kano ārai mate, he tāwaretanga tērā. Me wawe te ripoata ki a CERT NZ Ina kite koe i ētahi kōrero teka mō te kano ārai mate, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ (external link) Waihoki, ka taea e koe te waea ki a rātou i te 0800 237 869 . Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tāwaretanga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine Te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca | The AstraZeneca vaccine --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Engari e wātea ana te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Astra Zeneca ki te katoa kei tua i te 18 tau te pakeke e hiahia ana i tētahi whiringa kē, kāore rānei e āhei atu ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer. He kano ārai mate kawe huaketo (viral vector). Kāore he huaketo SARS-CoV-2 i roto i te kano ārai mate, nō reira e kore koe e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 i tēnei kano ārai mate. Me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca Me tatari koe mō te whā wiki, neke atu rānei, e āhei ai koe ki tō pota tuarua. Me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate e pai ake ai tō whakamarutanga. He kore utu, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te tāpui ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca mā Book My Vaccine (external link) , mā te waea rānei i te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . Ka whakaatu ake a Book My Vaccine i tētahi rārangi ingoa o ngā pokapū kano ārai mate e wātea ana te AstraZeneca. Me kaua koe e whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca mēnā: he tauhohenga tino pāwera tāu ki tēnei kano ārai mate, ki ōna matū whakauru rānei i pā tētahi tepetoto nui ki a koe i te wā e hahaka ana ō taumata mōtepe (thrombocytopenia) i muri i te whiwhi i tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i pā te Mate Ia-tōiti Papī (CLS - he mate e papī ai te wē i ngā ia-toto iti). Ka werohia te kano AstraZeneca ki roto i tētahi uaua (i te wāhanga whakarunga o te ringa). Ka taea te werohanga tuarua te tuku i waenga i te 4 ki te 12 wiki i muri i te werohanga tuatahi. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te AstraZeneca mō te pota tuatahi, kāti me whiwhi anō koe i tērā mō te pota tuarua. Me noho koe mō te 15 meneti i muri i tō werohanga kano ārai mate kia pai ai tā mātou tirotiro mēnā kei te pai koe. Ka māraurau koe mō te pota āpiti, e 3 marama i muri i tō whiwhi i te pota tuarua. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti He iti rawa ngā raraunga o te whakamahinga o te AstraZeneca e te hunga e hapū ana, nō reira ka noho ko Pfizer tonu te kōwhiringa mariunga o te kano ārai mate mō tēnei hunga. Mēnā kei te hāpu, kei te whāngote rānei koe, e whakaaro ana rānei e hapū ana koe, tēnā kōrero ki tō tākuta mēnā ko AstraZeneca te kano ārai mate e tika ana mōu. Ka whakahoi te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i te pūnaha awhikiri o te tinana. Mā tēnei ka whakaputa paturopi te tinana hei āwhina ki te whawhai i te huaketo. Ka āwhina tēnei ki te whakamaru i a koe i te KOWHEORI-19 i te anamata. E kore e hua mai te KOWHEORI-19 i ngā kaiwhakaranu o tēnei kano ārai mate. Ko ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ngā kano kua nui te rangahautia o ngā kano ārai mate katoa. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, he 81% te parenga a te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. E whakaatu ana hoki i te whaihuatanga 80%, piki atu rānei, mai i te urunga ki te hōhipera i muri i te pota tuatahi. Mō te parenga tino pai rawa atu, me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua. Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka tirotiro ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Māna e tūtohu mēnā ka whakaaetia tētahi rongoā hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa, engari me whakatutuki rawa ēnei paerewa. Kua āta aromatawaitia te haumarutanga o te AstraZeneca e Medsafe. Kāore i pokanoa te tuku whakaaetanga. Kua whakamahia angituhia e te hia miriona tāngata huri noa i te ao te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i ngā rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te pota tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka whai pānga pea ētahi pānga kino i tō kaha ki te taraiwa mō tētahi wā poto, te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te pota tuarua. Tērā anō ētahi pānga kino tino mokorea, engari he tino taumaha. He pānga kino tino mokorea ngā tepetoto o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. I pā ki te kotahi o ia 100,000 tāngata kua whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. Ka uru ki ngā tohumate te: hē o te manawa mamae uma pupuhi waewae mamae o ngā ringaringa, waewae rānei ānini pākaha atarua rangirua, hukihuki rānei mamae puku Kua rīpoatatia ētahi kēhi tino mokorea o te Mate Ia-Tōiti Papī (CLS). Ko ngā tohumate o tēnei mate ko te pupuhitanga wawe o ngā ringa me ngā waewae, te taumahatanga ohorere me te pōātinitini. Kua rīpoatatia hoki ngā kēhi tino mokorea o te mate Guillain-Barré (GBS). Ko te GBS he mate awhikiri mokorea, e pā ai te mate mumura ioio. Ko ētahi pea o ngā tohumate ko te mamae, te matangerengere, te ruha o ngā uaua o ngā ringa me ngā waewae, ā, tērā pea ka ahu atu ki te uma me te kanohi. Ina pā ētahi o ēnei tohumate ki a koe, me wawe te haere ki te tākuta. Ka taea e koe te whāki i ngā pānga kino ki te CARM, arā, The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring. He pātengi raraunga a CARM o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Te whāki i tētahi tauhohenga kino (external link) He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Te aromatawai me te whakamana i ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Ngā pānga kino me ngā tauhohenga o ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca | Pokapū Tohutohu Awhikiri (external link) Ngā mōhiotanga rūkahu me ngā tāware --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Engari e wātea ana te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Astra Zeneca ki te katoa kei tua i te 18 tau te pakeke e hiahia ana i tētahi whiringa kē, kāore rānei e āhei atu ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer. He kano ārai mate kawe huaketo (viral vector). Kāore he huaketo SARS-CoV-2 i roto i te kano ārai mate, nō reira e kore koe e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 i tēnei kano ārai mate. Me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca Me tatari koe mō te whā wiki, neke atu rānei, e āhei ai koe ki tō pota tuarua. Me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate e pai ake ai tō whakamarutanga. He kore utu, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te tāpui ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca mā Book My Vaccine (external link) , mā te waea rānei i te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . Ka whakaatu ake a Book My Vaccine i tētahi rārangi ingoa o ngā pokapū kano ārai mate e wātea ana te AstraZeneca. Me kaua koe e whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca mēnā: he tauhohenga tino pāwera tāu ki tēnei kano ārai mate, ki ōna matū whakauru rānei i pā tētahi tepetoto nui ki a koe i te wā e hahaka ana ō taumata mōtepe (thrombocytopenia) i muri i te whiwhi i tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i pā te Mate Ia-tōiti Papī (CLS - he mate e papī ai te wē i ngā ia-toto iti). Ka werohia te kano AstraZeneca ki roto i tētahi uaua (i te wāhanga whakarunga o te ringa). Ka taea te werohanga tuarua te tuku i waenga i te 4 ki te 12 wiki i muri i te werohanga tuatahi. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te AstraZeneca mō te pota tuatahi, kāti me whiwhi anō koe i tērā mō te pota tuarua. Me noho koe mō te 15 meneti i muri i tō werohanga kano ārai mate kia pai ai tā mātou tirotiro mēnā kei te pai koe. Ka māraurau koe mō te pota āpiti, e 3 marama i muri i tō whiwhi i te pota tuarua. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti He iti rawa ngā raraunga o te whakamahinga o te AstraZeneca e te hunga e hapū ana, nō reira ka noho ko Pfizer tonu te kōwhiringa mariunga o te kano ārai mate mō tēnei hunga. Mēnā kei te hāpu, kei te whāngote rānei koe, e whakaaro ana rānei e hapū ana koe, tēnā kōrero ki tō tākuta mēnā ko AstraZeneca te kano ārai mate e tika ana mōu. Ka whakahoi te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i te pūnaha awhikiri o te tinana. Mā tēnei ka whakaputa paturopi te tinana hei āwhina ki te whawhai i te huaketo. Ka āwhina tēnei ki te whakamaru i a koe i te KOWHEORI-19 i te anamata. E kore e hua mai te KOWHEORI-19 i ngā kaiwhakaranu o tēnei kano ārai mate. Ko ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ngā kano kua nui te rangahautia o ngā kano ārai mate katoa. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, he 81% te parenga a te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. E whakaatu ana hoki i te whaihuatanga 80%, piki atu rānei, mai i te urunga ki te hōhipera i muri i te pota tuatahi. Mō te parenga tino pai rawa atu, me whiwhi koe i ngā pota e rua. Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka tirotiro ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Māna e tūtohu mēnā ka whakaaetia tētahi rongoā hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa, engari me whakatutuki rawa ēnei paerewa. Kua āta aromatawaitia te haumarutanga o te AstraZeneca e Medsafe. Kāore i pokanoa te tuku whakaaetanga. Kua whakamahia angituhia e te hia miriona tāngata huri noa i te ao te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i ngā rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te pota tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka whai pānga pea ētahi pānga kino i tō kaha ki te taraiwa mō tētahi wā poto, te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te pota tuarua. Tērā anō ētahi pānga kino tino mokorea, engari he tino taumaha. He pānga kino tino mokorea ngā tepetoto o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. I pā ki te kotahi o ia 100,000 tāngata kua whiwhi i te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca. Ka uru ki ngā tohumate te: hē o te manawa mamae uma pupuhi waewae mamae o ngā ringaringa, waewae rānei ānini pākaha atarua rangirua, hukihuki rānei mamae puku Kua rīpoatatia ētahi kēhi tino mokorea o te Mate Ia-Tōiti Papī (CLS). Ko ngā tohumate o tēnei mate ko te pupuhitanga wawe o ngā ringa me ngā waewae, te taumahatanga ohorere me te pōātinitini. Kua rīpoatatia hoki ngā kēhi tino mokorea o te mate Guillain-Barré (GBS). Ko te GBS he mate awhikiri mokorea, e pā ai te mate mumura ioio. Ko ētahi pea o ngā tohumate ko te mamae, te matangerengere, te ruha o ngā uaua o ngā ringa me ngā waewae, ā, tērā pea ka ahu atu ki te uma me te kanohi. Ina pā ētahi o ēnei tohumate ki a koe, me wawe te haere ki te tākuta. Ka taea e koe te whāki i ngā pānga kino ki te CARM, arā, The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring. He pātengi raraunga a CARM o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Te whāki i tētahi tauhohenga kino (external link) He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Te aromatawai me te whakamana i ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Ngā pānga kino me ngā tauhohenga o ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca | Pokapū Tohutohu Awhikiri (external link) Ngā mōhiotanga rūkahu me ngā tāware --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer | The Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa ka hangaia e Pfizer-BioNTech. E mōhiotia ana hoki e tōna ingoa whaitohu, a Comirnaty. He kano ārai mate pūtake mRNA (waikawa tuipūmua karere). kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto. Kāore e pāngia tō DNA, ō ira rānei. He kore utu, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa pakeke ake i te 5 tau. He momo kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano ārai mate ka whakamahia mā ngā tamariki 5-11 tau te pakeke, otirā he iti iho te pota, he iti iho hoki te rahinga. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā kano ārai mate mā te hunga 5-11 tau te pakeke Pakeke ake i te 18 tau: kia rua ngā pota o te kano ārai mate, kia 3 wiki te wehenga. Me whiwhi hoki koe i tētahi pota āpiti mēnā kua 3 marama neke atu, i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate tuatahi. Kei waenga i te 12 me te 18 tau te pakeke: kia rua ngā pota o te kano ārai mate, kia 3 wiki te wehenga. I tēnei wā kāore ngā pota āpiti i te wātea ki te hunga kei raro i te 18 tau te pakeke. I raro i te 12 tau te pakeke: e whakahaua ana kia 8 wiki te wā i waenganui i ngā pota. I tēnei wā kāore ngā pota āpiti i te wātea ki te hunga kei raro i te 18 tau te pakeke. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti Ka taea e koe te tāpui ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer mā Book My Vaccine (external link) , mā te waea rānei i te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . E kore koe e āhei ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer mēnā kei raro koe i te 12 tau. Ka werohia koe e tētahi kaituku kano ārai mate tautōhito ki te kano ārai mate i te wāhanga o runga o tō ringa. Ka taea te werohanga tuarua i muri i te toru wiki i te iti rawa o tō werohanga tuatahi. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te Pfizer mō te pota tuatahi, kāti me whiwhi anō koe i tērā mō te pota tuarua. Me noho koe mō te 15 meneti i muri i tō werohanga kano ārai mate kia pai ai tā mātou tirotiro mēnā kei te pai koe. Ka māraurau koe mō te pota āpitihanga, e 3 marama i muri i tō whiwhi i te pota tuarua. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti Ka tukuna e te kano ārai mate Pfizer he huinga tohutohu hei whakaako i tō tinana me pēhea te whawhai i te huaketo KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka ako tō tinana ki te āhua o te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 me te whakamahi i ngā paturopi ki te whawhai atu. Ko tā te paturopi mahi he ārai atu i te huaketo kia kore e pokea ō pūtau, ā, ka āwhina ki te patu i a ia. Ina pā koe ki te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 hei te wā e tū mai nei, kei tō tinana ngā utauta tika ki te ārai i a ia anō, kia iti iho tō tūpono pāngia e te mate. Ko ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ngā kano kua nui te rangahautia o ngā kano ārai mate katoa. E mōhio ana mātou ki te pai o te mahi a te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā te mea i tutuki ngā hia marama o ngā whakamātautau ā-haumanu ki te 40,000 tāngata i mua i tana whakamanatanga. I whakatauritehia e ngā whakamātautau haumanu ngā hua o tētahi rōpū whiwhi kano ārai mate ki tētahi rōpū whiwhi kano whakataruna (mehanga tote). I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i kitea he 95% te parenga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. I kitea tōna tino whaihuatanga ki te ārai atu i te momo Delta. Rapua he kōrero mō te momo Delta Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka tirotiro ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Māna e tūtohu mēnā ka whakaaetia tētahi rongoā hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa, engari me whakatutuki rawa ēnei paerewa. Kua tukua e Medsafe te whakaaetanga tārewa ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer (me ngā here) kia whakamahia i Aotearoa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua whakaaetia ōkawatia, engari me tuku tonu a Pfizer i ngā raraunga haere tonu me te pūrongo hoki hei whakaatu i tana whakatutuki i ngā paerewa o te ao. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi aroturuki a Medsafe i te haumarutanga me te whaihuatanga o te kano ārai mate i te wā e whakamahia ana. Ka arotakehia ngā raraunga mai i ngā whakamātautau haumanu haere tonu puta noa i te ao, me ngā pūrongo mai i ngā mātanga hauora me te hunga kua whiwhi kano ārai mate. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i ngā rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te pota tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka whai pānga pea ētahi pānga kino i tō kaha ki te taraiwa mō tētahi wā poto, te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te werohanga tuarua. Tērā anō ētahi pānga kino tino mokorea, engari he tino taumaha. Ko te myocarditis te mumuratanga o te taha uaua manawa, ā, e mōhiotia ana hei pānga kino mokorea o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Ka uru ki ngā tohumate te: mamae uma ohorere hou hē o te manawa manawataki rerekē. Ka taea e koe te whāki i ngā pānga kino ki te CARM, arā, The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring. He pātengi raraunga a CARM o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Te whāki i tētahi tauhohenga kino (external link) He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te tūnga kano ārai mate i raro i te pūnaha rama toru. Kāore e taea e ngā pakihi me ngā rōpū whakahaere te ārai atu i te hunga kei raro i te 12 tau te pakeke ki te kuhu atu mēnā kāore he Tohu Kano Ārai Mate. Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Te aromatawai me te whakamana i ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Ngā pānga kino me ngā tauhohenga o ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer | Pokapū Tohutohu Awhikiri (external link) Ngā mōhiotanga rūkahu me ngā tāware --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa ka hangaia e Pfizer-BioNTech. E mōhiotia ana hoki e tōna ingoa whaitohu, a Comirnaty. He kano ārai mate pūtake mRNA (waikawa tuipūmua karere). kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto. Kāore e pāngia tō DNA, ō ira rānei. He kore utu, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa pakeke ake i te 5 tau. He momo kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano ārai mate ka whakamahia mā ngā tamariki 5-11 tau te pakeke, otirā he iti iho te pota, he iti iho hoki te rahinga. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā kano ārai mate mā te hunga 5-11 tau te pakeke Pakeke ake i te 18 tau: kia rua ngā pota o te kano ārai mate, kia 3 wiki te wehenga. Me whiwhi hoki koe i tētahi pota āpiti mēnā kua 3 marama neke atu, i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate tuatahi. Kei waenga i te 12 me te 18 tau te pakeke: kia rua ngā pota o te kano ārai mate, kia 3 wiki te wehenga. I tēnei wā kāore ngā pota āpiti i te wātea ki te hunga kei raro i te 18 tau te pakeke. I raro i te 12 tau te pakeke: e whakahaua ana kia 8 wiki te wā i waenganui i ngā pota. I tēnei wā kāore ngā pota āpiti i te wātea ki te hunga kei raro i te 18 tau te pakeke. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti Ka taea e koe te tāpui ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer mā Book My Vaccine (external link) , mā te waea rānei i te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . E kore koe e āhei ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer mēnā kei raro koe i te 12 tau. Ka werohia koe e tētahi kaituku kano ārai mate tautōhito ki te kano ārai mate i te wāhanga o runga o tō ringa. Ka taea te werohanga tuarua i muri i te toru wiki i te iti rawa o tō werohanga tuatahi. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te Pfizer mō te pota tuatahi, kāti me whiwhi anō koe i tērā mō te pota tuarua. Me noho koe mō te 15 meneti i muri i tō werohanga kano ārai mate kia pai ai tā mātou tirotiro mēnā kei te pai koe. Ka māraurau koe mō te pota āpitihanga, e 3 marama i muri i tō whiwhi i te pota tuarua. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti Ka tukuna e te kano ārai mate Pfizer he huinga tohutohu hei whakaako i tō tinana me pēhea te whawhai i te huaketo KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka ako tō tinana ki te āhua o te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 me te whakamahi i ngā paturopi ki te whawhai atu. Ko tā te paturopi mahi he ārai atu i te huaketo kia kore e pokea ō pūtau, ā, ka āwhina ki te patu i a ia. Ina pā koe ki te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 hei te wā e tū mai nei, kei tō tinana ngā utauta tika ki te ārai i a ia anō, kia iti iho tō tūpono pāngia e te mate. Ko ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ngā kano kua nui te rangahautia o ngā kano ārai mate katoa. E mōhio ana mātou ki te pai o te mahi a te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā te mea i tutuki ngā hia marama o ngā whakamātautau ā-haumanu ki te 40,000 tāngata i mua i tana whakamanatanga. I whakatauritehia e ngā whakamātautau haumanu ngā hua o tētahi rōpū whiwhi kano ārai mate ki tētahi rōpū whiwhi kano whakataruna (mehanga tote). I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i kitea he 95% te parenga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. I kitea tōna tino whaihuatanga ki te ārai atu i te momo Delta. Rapua he kōrero mō te momo Delta Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka tirotiro ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Māna e tūtohu mēnā ka whakaaetia tētahi rongoā hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa, engari me whakatutuki rawa ēnei paerewa. Kua tukua e Medsafe te whakaaetanga tārewa ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer (me ngā here) kia whakamahia i Aotearoa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua whakaaetia ōkawatia, engari me tuku tonu a Pfizer i ngā raraunga haere tonu me te pūrongo hoki hei whakaatu i tana whakatutuki i ngā paerewa o te ao. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi aroturuki a Medsafe i te haumarutanga me te whaihuatanga o te kano ārai mate i te wā e whakamahia ana. Ka arotakehia ngā raraunga mai i ngā whakamātautau haumanu haere tonu puta noa i te ao, me ngā pūrongo mai i ngā mātanga hauora me te hunga kua whiwhi kano ārai mate. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i ngā rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te pota tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka whai pānga pea ētahi pānga kino i tō kaha ki te taraiwa mō tētahi wā poto, te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te werohanga tuarua. Tērā anō ētahi pānga kino tino mokorea, engari he tino taumaha. Ko te myocarditis te mumuratanga o te taha uaua manawa, ā, e mōhiotia ana hei pānga kino mokorea o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Ka uru ki ngā tohumate te: mamae uma ohorere hou hē o te manawa manawataki rerekē. Ka taea e koe te whāki i ngā pānga kino ki te CARM, arā, The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring. He pātengi raraunga a CARM o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Te whāki i tētahi tauhohenga kino (external link) He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te tūnga kano ārai mate i raro i te pūnaha rama toru. Kāore e taea e ngā pakihi me ngā rōpū whakahaere te ārai atu i te hunga kei raro i te 12 tau te pakeke ki te kuhu atu mēnā kāore he Tohu Kano Ārai Mate. Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Te aromatawai me te whakamana i ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Ngā pānga kino me ngā tauhohenga o ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer | Pokapū Tohutohu Awhikiri (external link) Ngā mōhiotanga rūkahu me ngā tāware --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere | International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, kua whiwhi i tētahi pota kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Ka whai ēnei tiwhikete i ngā paerewa Tiwhikete Matihiko KOWHEORI a te EU. He rerekē pea ngā herenga o ētahi atu whenua. I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi tēnā tirohia ngā herenga o te whenua e haere atu nā koe. Me whai hoki koe i ngā tukanga manene noa mō te whenua e haere nā koe. Ka hiahiatia pea ētahi atu whāinga, pēnei i te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga atu, e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana. He waehere QR kei tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere, ka matawaitia i te wā e hāereere ana koe. Kei roto ngā taipitopito o ngā werohanga ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whiwhi koe i Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te puri i tēnei tiwhikete ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mana tēnei tiwhikete mō te 12 marama. Me ōrite ngā taipitopito o tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere ki ō tō puka uruwhenua. Ka taea te tirotiro i ō taipitopito whaiaro i te wā e tono ana koe i te tiwhikete. He tere, māmā hoki te tono i tō tiwhikete. Ka īmēratia atu tō tiwhikete ki a koe i te 24 hāora. Ko te huarahi tere rawa e whiwhi ai koe i tō tiwhikete, mā te My Covid Record. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te rōpū o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Takiuru ki My Covid Record. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpakona te ‘International certificate’ kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō tiwhikete kano ārai mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request certificate’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tiwhikete hāreere hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tiwhikete hāereere ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Ka taea anake e koe te whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere mēnā i werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi, me tono koe i tētahi tiwhikete mai i taua whenua, e taea ai e koe te puta ki waho o Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki ō pota e rua i tāwāhi, e kore rawa koe e whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere i Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, kua whiwhi i tētahi pota kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Ka whai ēnei tiwhikete i ngā paerewa Tiwhikete Matihiko KOWHEORI a te EU. He rerekē pea ngā herenga o ētahi atu whenua. I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi tēnā tirohia ngā herenga o te whenua e haere atu nā koe. Me whai hoki koe i ngā tukanga manene noa mō te whenua e haere nā koe. Ka hiahiatia pea ētahi atu whāinga, pēnei i te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga atu, e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana. He waehere QR kei tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere, ka matawaitia i te wā e hāereere ana koe. Kei roto ngā taipitopito o ngā werohanga ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whiwhi koe i Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te puri i tēnei tiwhikete ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mana tēnei tiwhikete mō te 12 marama. Me ōrite ngā taipitopito o tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere ki ō tō puka uruwhenua. Ka taea te tirotiro i ō taipitopito whaiaro i te wā e tono ana koe i te tiwhikete. He tere, māmā hoki te tono i tō tiwhikete. Ka īmēratia atu tō tiwhikete ki a koe i te 24 hāora. Ko te huarahi tere rawa e whiwhi ai koe i tō tiwhikete, mā te My Covid Record. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te rōpū o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Takiuru ki My Covid Record. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpakona te ‘International certificate’ kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō tiwhikete kano ārai mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request certificate’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tiwhikete hāreere hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tiwhikete hāereere ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Ka taea anake e koe te whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere mēnā i werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi, me tono koe i tētahi tiwhikete mai i taua whenua, e taea ai e koe te puta ki waho o Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki ō pota e rua i tāwāhi, e kore rawa koe e whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere i Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated Taku Pūkete Kowheori | My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. I ahu mai ngā mōhiohio i tō My Covid Record i ngā raraunga e puritia ana i te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI ā-motu (CIR). He take nui ki a mātou tō tūmataititanga. Ko koe anake ka āhei atu ki tō My Covid Record, otirā he haumaru. Me manatoko rā anō tō pūkete mā tētahi tohu tuakiri whaimana. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te My Vaccine Pass Rapua he kōrero anō mō te Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere E taea ana e te hunga katoa o Aotearoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, te hono ake. Hei whakamahi i te My Covid Record: Whakaritea tētahi My Health Account - mā tēnei e uru ai koe ki ō mōhiohio hauora tuihono. Me whiwhi koe i tāu ake wāhitau īmēra ki te whakarite i tētahi pūkete. Me whakarato hoki koe i tētahi o ēnei tuhinga e whai ake nei, kia whakaū ai mātou i tō tuakiri: He raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei He uruwhenua Ahitereiria, tētahi tiwhikete whānautanga nō reira rānei He raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei He uruwhenua Ahitereiria, tētahi tiwhikete whānautanga nō reira rānei Takiuru ki My Covid Record mā te ingoa kaiwhakamahi me te kupumuna o My Health Account. Ka taea hoki e koe te takiuru mā te RealMe, he pae e āhei ai koe ki te whakauru i ngā ratonga tuihono maha mā te ingoa kaiwhakamahi me te kupumuna kotahi, ā, me te hāpono haumaru ko wai koe i runga ipurangi. Kia uru atu koe ki My Covid Record, ka kite koe i ō pūkete kano ārai mate, me te whiwhi i te Kōkota Kano Ārai Mate, te Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere rānei. Ki te kore e taea e koe te uru atu ki My Covid Record mā tō tohu tuakiri o te wā nei, kāore rānei i a koe tētahi o ngā momo tohu tuakiri e whakaaetia ana, ka taea te whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora, e whiwhi ai koe i tētahi Kōkota Kano Ārai. Whakaritea mai tō nama NHI - tērā pea ka pātaitia koe ki ētahi pātai hei whakaū i tō tuakiri, pēnei i tō ingoa me tō rā whānau. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te tira o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) --- Section Separator --- He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. I ahu mai ngā mōhiohio i tō My Covid Record i ngā raraunga e puritia ana i te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI ā-motu (CIR). He take nui ki a mātou tō tūmataititanga. Ko koe anake ka āhei atu ki tō My Covid Record, otirā he haumaru. Me manatoko rā anō tō pūkete mā tētahi tohu tuakiri whaimana. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te My Vaccine Pass Rapua he kōrero anō mō te Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere E taea ana e te hunga katoa o Aotearoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, te hono ake. Hei whakamahi i te My Covid Record: Whakaritea tētahi My Health Account - mā tēnei e uru ai koe ki ō mōhiohio hauora tuihono. Me whiwhi koe i tāu ake wāhitau īmēra ki te whakarite i tētahi pūkete. Me whakarato hoki koe i tētahi o ēnei tuhinga e whai ake nei, kia whakaū ai mātou i tō tuakiri: He raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei He uruwhenua Ahitereiria, tētahi tiwhikete whānautanga nō reira rānei He raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei He uruwhenua Ahitereiria, tētahi tiwhikete whānautanga nō reira rānei Takiuru ki My Covid Record mā te ingoa kaiwhakamahi me te kupumuna o My Health Account. Ka taea hoki e koe te takiuru mā te RealMe, he pae e āhei ai koe ki te whakauru i ngā ratonga tuihono maha mā te ingoa kaiwhakamahi me te kupumuna kotahi, ā, me te hāpono haumaru ko wai koe i runga ipurangi. Kia uru atu koe ki My Covid Record, ka kite koe i ō pūkete kano ārai mate, me te whiwhi i te Kōkota Kano Ārai Mate, te Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere rānei. Ki te kore e taea e koe te uru atu ki My Covid Record mā tō tohu tuakiri o te wā nei, kāore rānei i a koe tētahi o ngā momo tohu tuakiri e whakaaetia ana, ka taea te whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora, e whiwhi ai koe i tētahi Kōkota Kano Ārai. Whakaritea mai tō nama NHI - tērā pea ka pātaitia koe ki ētahi pātai hei whakaū i tō tuakiri, pēnei i tō ingoa me tō rā whānau. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te tira o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated Taku tohu ārai mate | My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- He waehere QR a Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, e taea ai te whakamahi hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Ko tēnei anake te momo hāpono e whakaaetia ana. E kore e whakaaetia te kāri kano ārai mate waiporoporo i whiwhi pea koe i muri i tō werohanga ki te kano ārai mate, tētahi reta whakaū kano ārai mate rānei, e whakaaetia ana hei hāpono o tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, ka āhei koe ki te uru atu ki ētahi kaupapa me ētahi wāhi e whakahaere kaupapa ana i raro i te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 (pūnaha rama toru). E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Ka taea e koe te tono Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mēnā: he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, ā, kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer i Aotearoa. kua werohia ki te kano ārai mate koe i tāwāhi otirā he kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia (external link) . kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i Aotearoa. he aweretanga hauora tāu. Kei tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate tō ingoa, te rā whānau me te waehere QR. Ka taea e koe te puri ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mōnehu tō tohu e ono marama i muri i te rā tuku. Ko te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record te huarahi tere e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. He wā poto noa iho te roa o te tono i tō tohu, ā, ka īmēratia atu ki a koe i roto i te 24 hāora. Rapu me pēhea te rēhita mō te My Covid Record Kia hono ake koe ki My Covid Record: Takiaru. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpako ‘My Vaccine Pass’ (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) ka tīpako i ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request pass’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tohu hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tohu ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Mēnā kāore koe e uru atu ki My Covid Record, e hiahia ana rānei ki te tono tohu mā tētahi atu, tēnā whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki te whānuitanga o ngā taiopenga, ngā wāhi me ngā taiao tūmatanui. Ko ēnei pea ko ngā: taiopenga ngā wāhi manaaki ngā pakihi pānga tata pēnei i ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā whare whakapakari tinana hākinakina ngā huihuinga whakapono. Ka matawai te pakihi/taiopenga/wāhi i te waehere QR i runga i tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mā te taupānga manatoko tohu. Mā tēnei taupānga i whakaū i tō tūnga kano ārai. Ka tonoa pea koe ki te whakaatu i tō tuakiri ki te whakaū mēnā nāu tonu te tohu. E kore te taupānga e puri i ō raraunga. E kore e whakaaturia ētahi atu mōhiohio i tua atu i tō ingoa me tō rā whānau. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Tohu o Aotearoa E kore koe e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i te: hokomaha kēmehi ratonga hauora me te hauātanga ngā karāti penehīni waka tūmatanui - hei tauira, ngā pahi, ngā tereina me ngā waka kōpiko ngā kura me ngā kaiwhakarato mātauranga kōhungahunga ngā ratonga whare, tautoko whare hoki. E kore e taea te whakamahi i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mō te haere ki tāwāhi. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi atu whenua, me tono koe i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere Me tono koe ki Te Manatū Hauora mēnā he pūkete kano ārai mate tāhau nō tāwāhi hei tāpiri ake ki te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI o Aotearoa (CIR). Me oti tēnei mahi i mua i tō āheinga ki te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tiwhikete o tāwāhi (external link) E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā ngā take hauora, tērā tētahi tukanga whiwhi tohu whakawātea e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Me kōrero koe ki to tākuta, a, māna e tono mōu. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakawāteatanga me ngā tiwhikete (external link) --- Section Separator --- He waehere QR a Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, e taea ai te whakamahi hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Ko tēnei anake te momo hāpono e whakaaetia ana. E kore e whakaaetia te kāri kano ārai mate waiporoporo i whiwhi pea koe i muri i tō werohanga ki te kano ārai mate, tētahi reta whakaū kano ārai mate rānei, e whakaaetia ana hei hāpono o tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, ka āhei koe ki te uru atu ki ētahi kaupapa me ētahi wāhi e whakahaere kaupapa ana i raro i te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 (pūnaha rama toru). E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Ka taea e koe te tono Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mēnā: he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, ā, kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer i Aotearoa. kua werohia ki te kano ārai mate koe i tāwāhi otirā he kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia (external link) . kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i Aotearoa. he aweretanga hauora tāu. Kei tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate tō ingoa, te rā whānau me te waehere QR. Ka taea e koe te puri ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mōnehu tō tohu e ono marama i muri i te rā tuku. Ko te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record te huarahi tere e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. He wā poto noa iho te roa o te tono i tō tohu, ā, ka īmēratia atu ki a koe i roto i te 24 hāora. Rapu me pēhea te rēhita mō te My Covid Record Kia hono ake koe ki My Covid Record: Takiaru. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpako ‘My Vaccine Pass’ (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) ka tīpako i ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request pass’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tohu hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tohu ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Mēnā kāore koe e uru atu ki My Covid Record, e hiahia ana rānei ki te tono tohu mā tētahi atu, tēnā whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki te whānuitanga o ngā taiopenga, ngā wāhi me ngā taiao tūmatanui. Ko ēnei pea ko ngā: taiopenga ngā wāhi manaaki ngā pakihi pānga tata pēnei i ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā whare whakapakari tinana hākinakina ngā huihuinga whakapono. Ka matawai te pakihi/taiopenga/wāhi i te waehere QR i runga i tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mā te taupānga manatoko tohu. Mā tēnei taupānga i whakaū i tō tūnga kano ārai. Ka tonoa pea koe ki te whakaatu i tō tuakiri ki te whakaū mēnā nāu tonu te tohu. E kore te taupānga e puri i ō raraunga. E kore e whakaaturia ētahi atu mōhiohio i tua atu i tō ingoa me tō rā whānau. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Tohu o Aotearoa E kore koe e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i te: hokomaha kēmehi ratonga hauora me te hauātanga ngā karāti penehīni waka tūmatanui - hei tauira, ngā pahi, ngā tereina me ngā waka kōpiko ngā kura me ngā kaiwhakarato mātauranga kōhungahunga ngā ratonga whare, tautoko whare hoki. E kore e taea te whakamahi i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mō te haere ki tāwāhi. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi atu whenua, me tono koe i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere Me tono koe ki Te Manatū Hauora mēnā he pūkete kano ārai mate tāhau nō tāwāhi hei tāpiri ake ki te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI o Aotearoa (CIR). Me oti tēnei mahi i mua i tō āheinga ki te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tiwhikete o tāwāhi (external link) E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā ngā take hauora, tērā tētahi tukanga whiwhi tohu whakawātea e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Me kōrero koe ki to tākuta, a, māna e tono mōu. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakawāteatanga me ngā tiwhikete (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated Taupānga Manatoko Tohu Ārai Mate o Aotearoa | NZ Pass Verifier app --- Section Separator --- Ka taea te whakamahi i te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ki te hihira i te ūnga kano ārai mate o te tangata. Me whai ipurangi ki te tikiake i te taupānga i te tuatahi, me te matawai tuatahi hoki. Hei muri i tērā, ka taea e te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa te matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai me te kore hononga ki te ipurangi, engari me hono ki te ipurangi i ngā wā auau ki te whakarite e taea ai e ia te manatoko i ngā My Vaccine Passes e whaimana ana. Kāore e taea te whakamahi i te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa hei matawai i ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāreere. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero mō te My Vaccine Pass Tīkina ake te taupānga mā te App Store (external link) Tīkina ake te taupānga mā Google Play (external link) Ina tikiake koe i te taupānga, me te whakaae ki ngā ture whakamahi, me: E hiahiatia ana e te taupānga NZ Pass Verifier ngā whakaaetanga kāmera kia taea ai te matawai i ngā waehere QR My Vaccine Pass. Ka tono te taupānga i tēnei whakaaetanga ina tīmata koe ki te matawai. Hei matawai i tētahi kōkota, pāwhiri i te pātene ‘Scan’. Mā tēnei e whakaatu te mata matawai. Tohua tō waea ki te waehere QR i te kōkota kia uru ki te rohe heipū o tō mata. Ko te kōkota whaimana ka whakaatu i te ingoa me te rā whānau o te tangata (e whakaatu ana i runga i te Kōkota Kano Ārai) tae atu ki te tohu whakaae kākāriki me te kupu ‘valid’. Mēnā kāore te Kōkota Kano Ārai o Aotearoa e whaimana, mā te taupānga e kī ake he aha ai. Ākene pea nā te mea: kua mōnehu te kōkota, tērā rānei kāore e taea te manatoko i te waehere QR. Hei matawai i tētahi atu kōkota, patohia te pātene ‘Scan again’, me miri whakararo rānei i te mata otinga ki te whakakore. Kāore te matawai i te Kōkota e whāki atu mēnā kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua, kāore rānei - engari ka whāki mēnā kua tutuki ngā herenga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ma tēnei e pupuri te tūmataitinga o te hunga tē āhei atu ki te kano ārai mate nā ngā take hauora. Tērā pea kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate, he tohu whakawātea ā-hauora rānei tāna (he iti noa te hunga o Aotearoa ka whiwhi i tēnei). Ki te hiahia āwhina koe ki te taupānga, ka taea e koe te whakapā atu ki te rōpū motuhake i Te Manatū Hauora. Īmēra VerifierTechHelp@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea ki 0800 800 606 --- Section Separator --- Ka taea te whakamahi i te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ki te hihira i te ūnga kano ārai mate o te tangata. Me whai ipurangi ki te tikiake i te taupānga i te tuatahi, me te matawai tuatahi hoki. Hei muri i tērā, ka taea e te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa te matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai me te kore hononga ki te ipurangi, engari me hono ki te ipurangi i ngā wā auau ki te whakarite e taea ai e ia te manatoko i ngā My Vaccine Passes e whaimana ana. Kāore e taea te whakamahi i te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa hei matawai i ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāreere. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero mō te My Vaccine Pass Tīkina ake te taupānga mā te App Store (external link) Tīkina ake te taupānga mā Google Play (external link) Ina tikiake koe i te taupānga, me te whakaae ki ngā ture whakamahi, me: E hiahiatia ana e te taupānga NZ Pass Verifier ngā whakaaetanga kāmera kia taea ai te matawai i ngā waehere QR My Vaccine Pass. Ka tono te taupānga i tēnei whakaaetanga ina tīmata koe ki te matawai. Hei matawai i tētahi kōkota, pāwhiri i te pātene ‘Scan’. Mā tēnei e whakaatu te mata matawai. Tohua tō waea ki te waehere QR i te kōkota kia uru ki te rohe heipū o tō mata. Ko te kōkota whaimana ka whakaatu i te ingoa me te rā whānau o te tangata (e whakaatu ana i runga i te Kōkota Kano Ārai) tae atu ki te tohu whakaae kākāriki me te kupu ‘valid’. Mēnā kāore te Kōkota Kano Ārai o Aotearoa e whaimana, mā te taupānga e kī ake he aha ai. Ākene pea nā te mea: kua mōnehu te kōkota, tērā rānei kāore e taea te manatoko i te waehere QR. Hei matawai i tētahi atu kōkota, patohia te pātene ‘Scan again’, me miri whakararo rānei i te mata otinga ki te whakakore. Kāore te matawai i te Kōkota e whāki atu mēnā kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua, kāore rānei - engari ka whāki mēnā kua tutuki ngā herenga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ma tēnei e pupuri te tūmataitinga o te hunga tē āhei atu ki te kano ārai mate nā ngā take hauora. Tērā pea kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate, he tohu whakawātea ā-hauora rānei tāna (he iti noa te hunga o Aotearoa ka whiwhi i tēnei). Ki te hiahia āwhina koe ki te taupānga, ka taea e koe te whakapā atu ki te rōpū motuhake i Te Manatū Hauora. Īmēra VerifierTechHelp@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea ki 0800 800 606 --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Te Kaupapa Tuku Kano Ārai Mate KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka puta pea i te kano ārai mate Pfizer he pānga kino ki ētahi tamariki. Koinei tonu te urupare a te tinana, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te mahi te kano ārai mate. --- Section Separator --- Te Kaupapa Tuku Kano Ārai Mate KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka puta pea i te kano ārai mate Pfizer he pānga kino ki ētahi tamariki. Koinei tonu te urupare a te tinana, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te mahi te kano ārai mate.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Ngā werohanga mō ngā tamariki | Vaccinations for children I muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate Pfizer a tō tamaiti | After your child’s Pfizer vaccination --- Section Separator --- He mea tikanga hira te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia noho haumaru ngā tamariki, he rite ki te pani ārai hihira, te whakamau tātua waka rānei. He tiaki i ō tamariki mai i ngā mate nui me te ārai i te hōrapa o te mate ki roto i tō whānau me te hapori. E rua ngā potanga kano ārai mate Pfizer me whiwhi te tamaiti hei tino ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka tukuna ngā potanga e rua kia 8 wiki i waenganui. Ka taea te whakapoto te wā ki te 21 rā i te iti rawa mēnā e hiahiatia ana, hei tauira, mēnā kei te tīmata maimoatanga rongoā pēhi ārai mate nui tō tamaiti. Kua whakamātautauria haumanutia te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau me ngā tamariki nō tēnei rōpū taipakeke, ā, me kī, ko ngā pānga kino i pūrongohia he māmā, kāore i roa, ā, he rite ki ngā pānga kino nō ētahi atu kano ārai mate noa Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka pā mai pea ētahi pānga kino māmā ki tō tamaiti i te 1—2 rā i muri i te whiwhi i tana kano ārai mate Pfizer. He mea noa tēnei, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te ako tōna tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. Kāore e tino roa te pānga mai o te nuinga o ngā pānga kino, ā, kāore he pānga o te nuinga ki ō mahi o ia rā. Mēnā kāore e pā mai he pānga kino ki tō tamaiti kei te pai tērā, kei te mahi tonu te kano ārai mate. mamae, pupuhi/whero rānei i te wāhi i weroa ngenge, te ruha rānei ānini o te māhunga mamae uaua, mamae hono hoki/rānei mātao/kirikā whakapairuaki whakamau papanga mātai, mākū hoki, tētahi pēke tio rānei ki te wāhi wero mō te wā iti whakarite ka whakatā ia, ā, kia nui te inu wai whāngai paracetamol i te tuatahi, te ibuprofen rānei mēnā ka pā tonu mai ngā tohumate rapu tohutohu mai i tō mātanga hauora mēnā kāore koe i te tino mōhio, mēnā rānei ka kino ake ngā tohumate o tō tamaiti, waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 Ka taea ngā pānga pāwera kino te pā mai engari he tino rerekē ēnei. Ka whakangungua ngā kaiwero o Aotearoa ki te whakahaere i ēnei. Me kōrero atu ki tō kaiwero mēnā ka māuiui tō tamaiti, kei te māharahara rānei koe, i te mea he tere te pā mai o ngā pānga pāwera kino i muri i te kano ārai mate. Koinei te take me tirotiro tō tamaiti mō te 15 meneti i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate. He kino ake pea ētahi pānga kino, engari he mokorea, pēnei i te mate pāwera tino kino, te kakā o te manawa rānei (Myocarditis me te pericarditis). He tino rerekē te pā mai o te myocarditis me te pericarditis engari he pānga kino ēnei nō te kano ārai mate Pfizer. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, kāore i kitea ēnei i roto i ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau, engari he mea nui kia mōhio ki ngā tohumate mō ngā taipakeke katoa ka whiwhi kano ārai mate. Mēnā ka pā mai ētahi o ēnei tohumate hou ki tō tamaiti, me rapu āwhina hauora koe, otirā mēnā kāore e kore atu ēnei tohumate: ka kikī, taumaha, auhi, mamae rānei tō uma, kakī rānei ka uaua te hēhē, te mapu hau rānei he takarangi, āmaimai, nihinihi rānei he kakapa, he tere, he pātuki rānei te manawa, kei te 'tīpokapoka' rānei te āhua. He mea nui kia pūrongohia e koe ngā pānga ki ō tamariki whai muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia pai ai tā mātau whaiwhai i te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate. Ka taea e koe te pūrongo ngā pānga kino ki tō tamaiti i report.vaccine.covid19.govt.nz (external link) , me kōrero rānei ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora mēnā ka hiahia koe ki te kōrero mō te pūrongo i ngā pānga kino. Ehara i te mea me mātua mōhio koe i ahu mai te pānga i te kano ārai mate hei tuku pūrongo. Ka whiwhi anō pea koe i tētahi karere patowaea i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai KOWHEORI-19 a tō tamaiti e tono ana kia whakaotihia e koe he rangahau poto mō ngā pānga. Mā te whakauru mai ka āwhina koe i a mātau kia whiwhi mōhio mō te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Kei a koe te tikanga mēnā ka whakauru mai ki te rangahau, ā, ka āhei koe ki te wehe atu ahakoa te wā. He koreutu te whakautu i te patowaea. Ka kitea he mōhiohio atu anō i Medsafe.govt.nz/COVID-safety-reporting/ (external link) Mēnā kāore koe i te tino mōhio mō ngā tohumate o tō tamaiti, waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara tonu ōu mō te haumaru o tō tamaiti, me waea atu ki 111 , ā, me mātua whakamōhio atu i whiwhi tō tamaiti i tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātau aromatawai i tōna tūāhua. Ka āwhina ngā kano ārai mate ki te tiaki i ngā tāngata nō ngā taipakeke katoa mai i ētahi o ngā mate maunoa maha, pērā i te mate karawaka, me te whurū. Me tiro mēnā kua whiwhi tō whānau i ngā kano ārai mate katoa mā te kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Kāore he māharahara mō te wā ka whiwhi i ētahi atu kano ārai mate ehara i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te mate karawaka, mate repe pupuhi, rūpera; kāore koe e mate ki te hiki i ēnei kano ārai mate mō tētahi atu wā. Haere ki health.govt.nz/immunisation (external link) mō ētahi atu mōhiohio. I muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate Pfizer a tō tamaiti | After your child’s Pfizer vaccination [PDF, 218 KB] --- Section Separator --- He mea tikanga hira te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia noho haumaru ngā tamariki, he rite ki te pani ārai hihira, te whakamau tātua waka rānei. He tiaki i ō tamariki mai i ngā mate nui me te ārai i te hōrapa o te mate ki roto i tō whānau me te hapori. E rua ngā potanga kano ārai mate Pfizer me whiwhi te tamaiti hei tino ārai i te mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka tukuna ngā potanga e rua kia 8 wiki i waenganui. Ka taea te whakapoto te wā ki te 21 rā i te iti rawa mēnā e hiahiatia ana, hei tauira, mēnā kei te tīmata maimoatanga rongoā pēhi ārai mate nui tō tamaiti. Kua whakamātautauria haumanutia te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau me ngā tamariki nō tēnei rōpū taipakeke, ā, me kī, ko ngā pānga kino i pūrongohia he māmā, kāore i roa, ā, he rite ki ngā pānga kino nō ētahi atu kano ārai mate noa Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka pā mai pea ētahi pānga kino māmā ki tō tamaiti i te 1—2 rā i muri i te whiwhi i tana kano ārai mate Pfizer. He mea noa tēnei, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te ako tōna tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. Kāore e tino roa te pānga mai o te nuinga o ngā pānga kino, ā, kāore he pānga o te nuinga ki ō mahi o ia rā. Mēnā kāore e pā mai he pānga kino ki tō tamaiti kei te pai tērā, kei te mahi tonu te kano ārai mate. mamae, pupuhi/whero rānei i te wāhi i weroa ngenge, te ruha rānei ānini o te māhunga mamae uaua, mamae hono hoki/rānei mātao/kirikā whakapairuaki whakamau papanga mātai, mākū hoki, tētahi pēke tio rānei ki te wāhi wero mō te wā iti whakarite ka whakatā ia, ā, kia nui te inu wai whāngai paracetamol i te tuatahi, te ibuprofen rānei mēnā ka pā tonu mai ngā tohumate rapu tohutohu mai i tō mātanga hauora mēnā kāore koe i te tino mōhio, mēnā rānei ka kino ake ngā tohumate o tō tamaiti, waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 Ka taea ngā pānga pāwera kino te pā mai engari he tino rerekē ēnei. Ka whakangungua ngā kaiwero o Aotearoa ki te whakahaere i ēnei. Me kōrero atu ki tō kaiwero mēnā ka māuiui tō tamaiti, kei te māharahara rānei koe, i te mea he tere te pā mai o ngā pānga pāwera kino i muri i te kano ārai mate. Koinei te take me tirotiro tō tamaiti mō te 15 meneti i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate. He kino ake pea ētahi pānga kino, engari he mokorea, pēnei i te mate pāwera tino kino, te kakā o te manawa rānei (Myocarditis me te pericarditis). He tino rerekē te pā mai o te myocarditis me te pericarditis engari he pānga kino ēnei nō te kano ārai mate Pfizer. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, kāore i kitea ēnei i roto i ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau, engari he mea nui kia mōhio ki ngā tohumate mō ngā taipakeke katoa ka whiwhi kano ārai mate. Mēnā ka pā mai ētahi o ēnei tohumate hou ki tō tamaiti, me rapu āwhina hauora koe, otirā mēnā kāore e kore atu ēnei tohumate: ka kikī, taumaha, auhi, mamae rānei tō uma, kakī rānei ka uaua te hēhē, te mapu hau rānei he takarangi, āmaimai, nihinihi rānei he kakapa, he tere, he pātuki rānei te manawa, kei te 'tīpokapoka' rānei te āhua. He mea nui kia pūrongohia e koe ngā pānga ki ō tamariki whai muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia pai ai tā mātau whaiwhai i te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate. Ka taea e koe te pūrongo ngā pānga kino ki tō tamaiti i report.vaccine.covid19.govt.nz (external link) , me kōrero rānei ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora mēnā ka hiahia koe ki te kōrero mō te pūrongo i ngā pānga kino. Ehara i te mea me mātua mōhio koe i ahu mai te pānga i te kano ārai mate hei tuku pūrongo. Ka whiwhi anō pea koe i tētahi karere patowaea i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai KOWHEORI-19 a tō tamaiti e tono ana kia whakaotihia e koe he rangahau poto mō ngā pānga. Mā te whakauru mai ka āwhina koe i a mātau kia whiwhi mōhio mō te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Kei a koe te tikanga mēnā ka whakauru mai ki te rangahau, ā, ka āhei koe ki te wehe atu ahakoa te wā. He koreutu te whakautu i te patowaea. Ka kitea he mōhiohio atu anō i Medsafe.govt.nz/COVID-safety-reporting/ (external link) Mēnā kāore koe i te tino mōhio mō ngā tohumate o tō tamaiti, waea atu ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara tonu ōu mō te haumaru o tō tamaiti, me waea atu ki 111 , ā, me mātua whakamōhio atu i whiwhi tō tamaiti i tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātau aromatawai i tōna tūāhua. Ka āwhina ngā kano ārai mate ki te tiaki i ngā tāngata nō ngā taipakeke katoa mai i ētahi o ngā mate maunoa maha, pērā i te mate karawaka, me te whurū. Me tiro mēnā kua whiwhi tō whānau i ngā kano ārai mate katoa mā te kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Kāore he māharahara mō te wā ka whiwhi i ētahi atu kano ārai mate ehara i te KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te mate karawaka, mate repe pupuhi, rūpera; kāore koe e mate ki te hiki i ēnei kano ārai mate mō tētahi atu wā. Haere ki health.govt.nz/immunisation (external link) mō ētahi atu mōhiohio. --- Section Separator --- I muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate Pfizer a tō tamaiti | After your child’s Pfizer vaccination [PDF, 218 KB] --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Ngā werohanga mō ngā tamariki | Vaccinations for children Te tiaki i ō tamariki mai i te KOWHEORI-19 | Protecting your tamariki from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Ka āhei ngā mātua me ngā kaitiaki tamariki ki te tiaki i ā rātau tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau mai i te KOWHEORI-19, mā te tuku i tētahi hanganga o te kano ārai mate Pfizer (mātai mate tamariki). Ko te kano ārai mate ka whakamahia mō ngā tamariki he tauira kano ārai mate Pfizer tēnei mō ngā tamariki, ā, he iti ake te potanga me te rahinga. E rua ngā potanga me whiwhi ngā tamariki kia tino whakamarutia. E tūtohua ana kia 8 wiki i te iti rawa i waenganui. Ka taea te whakapoto te wā ki te 21 rā i te iti rawa mēnā e hiahiatia ana, hei tauira, mēnā kei te tīmata maimoatanga tō tamaiti me ngā rongoā pēhi ārai mate. E tūtohu ana Te Manatū Hauora kia whiwhi kano ārai mate tō tamaiti hei tiaki i a ia me tō whānau, hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. He tikanga hira te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia noho haumaru ngā tamariki, he rite ki te pani ārai hihira, te whakamau tātua waka rānei. He tiaki i ō tamariki mai i ngā mate nui me te ārai i te hōrapa o te mate ki roto i tō whānau me te hapori. I Aotearoa, ka whiwhi ngā tamariki i ngā kano ārai mate koreutu mō ngā mate 12, tae atu ki te mare heihei (pertussis), mate karawaka me te whakamemeke. Mā te tuku kano ārai mate ki ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau ka āwhina ki te tiaki i ērā o te whānau he nui ake te mōrea ki te KOWHEORI-19 nā ō rātau mate. He matawhawhati pea te mate KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ahakoa he māmā ake te pānga o te KOWHEORI-19 ki ngā tamariki, he rite ngā tohumate ki te whurū, ka pāngia kinotia ētahi tamariki e te mate, ā, ka uru pea ki te hōhipera. Ka pāngia hoki ngā tamariki ki ētahi mate tino rerekē pērā i te Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), ā, tērā pea ka uru ki te wāhanga whāomoomo. Ka pāngia anō ngā tamariki ki ngā pānga kino wā roa (e kīia ana ko te KOWHEORI mauroa), mai i ngā kēhi KOWHEORI-19 māmā hoki. Pērā anō i ngā pakeke, ki te pāngia tō tamaiti e te mate KOWHEORI-19 ka taea e ia te tuku mate ki ētahi atu. Kua whakamātautauria haumanutia te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau me ngā tamariki nō tēnei rōpū taipakeke. Me kī, ko ngā pānga kino i pūrongohia he māmā, kāore i roa, ā, he rite ki ngā pānga kino nō ētahi atu kano ārai mate noa. E tūtohua ana te kano ārai mate mō ngā tamariki he mate pāwera kai ō rātau. Engari kāore he kai, keratini, taherapa rānei i roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Ko te pūtake anake kia kaua te tangata e whiwhi i tēnei kano ārai mate nā te pāwera mēnā i pā mai he pāwera kino ki a ia i mua (anaphylaxis) mai i tētahi potanga kano ārai mate Pfizer, he kai rānei nō roto o te kano ārai mate. I whakahaerehia anō taua tukanga whakaae taikaha mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer tamariki (mātai mate tamariki) pērā i ētahi atu kano ārai mate tamariki noa. Kāore i pokaina he whakamātautau haumanu, he karo rānei i roto i ngā whakamātautau i te haumarutanga. Me whakamānawa i tō tamaiti kia āta tau ia. Me mātua whakarite kua whiwhi kai me te inu ia. Me tirotiro mēnā kei te mau ia i ngā kākahu e māmā ai te kite, e wātea mai hoki tōna kikopuku. Mēnā kei te āhua āmaimai ia, ka āhei ia ki te heri atu i tētahi mea hei whakaware i a ia, pērā i tētahi taonga tākaro ngohengohe, he waea rānei. Mēnā he pānga ki ō tamariki i ētahi atu kano ārai mate i mua, me whakamōhio atu ki tō kaiwero, me kōrero rānei ki tō rata i mua i te wāhui, me kōrero rānei ki tētahi mātanga matatau nō te COVID Vaccination Healthline – 0800 28 29 26 . Me whai tētahi matua, kaitiaki rānei i tō tamaiti ki tana wāhui hei pakeke tōtika me te tuku whakaae mōna kia whiwhi kano ārai mate ia. I te wāhui, kei te pakeke me te tamaiti te kaha ki te tuku i ngā pātai katoa e hiahia ana rāua. Pērā me ngā kano ārai mate katoa, kāore e kore ka mamae tō ringa o tō tamaiti, ā, ka whero, ka mamae, ka pupuhi rānei te wāhi i weroa. Ko ētahi atu pānga ka taea, ko te tikanga i roto i te kotahi, rua rā rānei, ko te: ānini māhunga kirikā (ka wera) whakapairuaki (kei te māuiui), ruaki, mate tikotiko rūhā auhi (kei te māuiui, pākikini, mamae hoki). Pā noa mai ēnei, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te mahi te kano ārai mate. Me whakahau kia whakatā, ā, kia nui tonu te inu wai. He tino rerekē ngā pānga kino mai i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer, ā, i te nuinga o te wā ka pā mai i muri tonu i te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Nā tēnei, ka whakanohotia kōrua ko tō tamaiti ki tētahi wāhi mātai kia tirotirohia ai ia e ngā kaimahi haumanu hei whakarite ka whiwhi maimoatanga hauora ia ki te tūpono pā mai tēnei. Ngā tohu pānga kino pea ko te: uaua o te hēhē pupuhi o te kanohi me te korokoro tere o te kapa o te manawa kino o te kirikā o te tinana pōātinitini me te ngoikore. Mēnā ka kite koe kua pāngia tō tamaiti e tētahi o ēnei tohumate, me wawe te whakamōhio atu ki ngā kaimahi haumanu. Mēnā kāore koe i tētahi wāhi tuku kano ārai mate me waea atu ki 111 . He tino rerekē te pā mai o te myocarditis me te pericarditis engari he pānga kino ēnei nō te kano ārai mate Pfizer. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, kāore i kitea ēnei i roto i ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau, engari he mea nui kia mōhio ki ngā tohumate mō ngā taipakeke katoa ka whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ki te pā mai tētahi o ēnei tohumate ki tō tamaiti i ngā rā, ngā wiki rānei i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate, me wawe tonu te whiwhi āwhina hauora. Ngā tohumate o te myocarditis me te pericarditis: he auhi, taumaha, kikī haere, mamae rānei tōna uma he uaua o te hēhē he tere te kapa o te manawa, he kakapa, pātukituki rānei he takarangi, nihinihi, āmaimai rānei. Kāore he utu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mō te tangata. Mai i te 17 o Hānuere, ka āhei ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki tamariki rānei te haere ki tētahi wāhi tuku kano ārai mate kuhu noa me ā rātau tamariki, te whakamahi rānei i te BookMyVaccine.nz (external link) hei whiwhi kano ārai mate me tō rātau kaiwhakarato hauora ake, whare rata rānei. Me mātua whakarite ka tīpakohia e koe te awhe taipakeke tika. Mēnā kei te hiahia koe ki te tāpui mō neke atu i te kotahi tamaiti, kāore rānei e taea e koe te tāpui tuihono, ka taea te waea atu ki COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 (8am–8pm, 7 rā i te wiki), ā, ka whakaritea e mātau te tāpuitanga mōu me te whakautu i ō pātai. E wātea ana ngā kaiwhakamāori. E wātea ana te Rōpū Tautoko Hauātanga i te Mane ki te Paraire, mai i te 8am ki te 8pm. Ka tautokona e rātau tō whānau me te tāpui i tētahi wāhui mōu. Ka taea anō e rātau te whakautu ō pātai mō ngā hiahia o tō tamaiti tae atu ki te wātea mai ki a rātau, ngā kōwhiringa ikiiki koreutu, ngā pānga rānei o te kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti. Waea ki 0800 28 29 26 ka pēhi 2 Patowaea koreutu ki 8988 Īmēra accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz Mō ētahi mōhiohio anō me ngā hono hei rangahau, haere ki: Unite Against COVID-19 Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri – Karawhiua.nz (external link) Te Manatū Mō Ngā Iwi o Te Moananui-a-Kiwa (external link) Me kōrero ki tētahi kaitohutohu matatau kei te COVID Vaccination Healthline – 0800 28 29 26 8am–8pm, 7 ra i te wiki. Te tiaki i ō tamariki mai i te KOWHEORI-19 | Protecting your tamariki from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Ka āhei ngā mātua me ngā kaitiaki tamariki ki te tiaki i ā rātau tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau mai i te KOWHEORI-19, mā te tuku i tētahi hanganga o te kano ārai mate Pfizer (mātai mate tamariki). Ko te kano ārai mate ka whakamahia mō ngā tamariki he tauira kano ārai mate Pfizer tēnei mō ngā tamariki, ā, he iti ake te potanga me te rahinga. E rua ngā potanga me whiwhi ngā tamariki kia tino whakamarutia. E tūtohua ana kia 8 wiki i te iti rawa i waenganui. Ka taea te whakapoto te wā ki te 21 rā i te iti rawa mēnā e hiahiatia ana, hei tauira, mēnā kei te tīmata maimoatanga tō tamaiti me ngā rongoā pēhi ārai mate. E tūtohu ana Te Manatū Hauora kia whiwhi kano ārai mate tō tamaiti hei tiaki i a ia me tō whānau, hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. He tikanga hira te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia noho haumaru ngā tamariki, he rite ki te pani ārai hihira, te whakamau tātua waka rānei. He tiaki i ō tamariki mai i ngā mate nui me te ārai i te hōrapa o te mate ki roto i tō whānau me te hapori. I Aotearoa, ka whiwhi ngā tamariki i ngā kano ārai mate koreutu mō ngā mate 12, tae atu ki te mare heihei (pertussis), mate karawaka me te whakamemeke. Mā te tuku kano ārai mate ki ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau ka āwhina ki te tiaki i ērā o te whānau he nui ake te mōrea ki te KOWHEORI-19 nā ō rātau mate. He matawhawhati pea te mate KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ahakoa he māmā ake te pānga o te KOWHEORI-19 ki ngā tamariki, he rite ngā tohumate ki te whurū, ka pāngia kinotia ētahi tamariki e te mate, ā, ka uru pea ki te hōhipera. Ka pāngia hoki ngā tamariki ki ētahi mate tino rerekē pērā i te Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), ā, tērā pea ka uru ki te wāhanga whāomoomo. Ka pāngia anō ngā tamariki ki ngā pānga kino wā roa (e kīia ana ko te KOWHEORI mauroa), mai i ngā kēhi KOWHEORI-19 māmā hoki. Pērā anō i ngā pakeke, ki te pāngia tō tamaiti e te mate KOWHEORI-19 ka taea e ia te tuku mate ki ētahi atu. Kua whakamātautauria haumanutia te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau me ngā tamariki nō tēnei rōpū taipakeke. Me kī, ko ngā pānga kino i pūrongohia he māmā, kāore i roa, ā, he rite ki ngā pānga kino nō ētahi atu kano ārai mate noa. E tūtohua ana te kano ārai mate mō ngā tamariki he mate pāwera kai ō rātau. Engari kāore he kai, keratini, taherapa rānei i roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Ko te pūtake anake kia kaua te tangata e whiwhi i tēnei kano ārai mate nā te pāwera mēnā i pā mai he pāwera kino ki a ia i mua (anaphylaxis) mai i tētahi potanga kano ārai mate Pfizer, he kai rānei nō roto o te kano ārai mate. I whakahaerehia anō taua tukanga whakaae taikaha mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer tamariki (mātai mate tamariki) pērā i ētahi atu kano ārai mate tamariki noa. Kāore i pokaina he whakamātautau haumanu, he karo rānei i roto i ngā whakamātautau i te haumarutanga. Me whakamānawa i tō tamaiti kia āta tau ia. Me mātua whakarite kua whiwhi kai me te inu ia. Me tirotiro mēnā kei te mau ia i ngā kākahu e māmā ai te kite, e wātea mai hoki tōna kikopuku. Mēnā kei te āhua āmaimai ia, ka āhei ia ki te heri atu i tētahi mea hei whakaware i a ia, pērā i tētahi taonga tākaro ngohengohe, he waea rānei. Mēnā he pānga ki ō tamariki i ētahi atu kano ārai mate i mua, me whakamōhio atu ki tō kaiwero, me kōrero rānei ki tō rata i mua i te wāhui, me kōrero rānei ki tētahi mātanga matatau nō te COVID Vaccination Healthline – 0800 28 29 26 . Me whai tētahi matua, kaitiaki rānei i tō tamaiti ki tana wāhui hei pakeke tōtika me te tuku whakaae mōna kia whiwhi kano ārai mate ia. I te wāhui, kei te pakeke me te tamaiti te kaha ki te tuku i ngā pātai katoa e hiahia ana rāua. Pērā me ngā kano ārai mate katoa, kāore e kore ka mamae tō ringa o tō tamaiti, ā, ka whero, ka mamae, ka pupuhi rānei te wāhi i weroa. Ko ētahi atu pānga ka taea, ko te tikanga i roto i te kotahi, rua rā rānei, ko te: ānini māhunga kirikā (ka wera) whakapairuaki (kei te māuiui), ruaki, mate tikotiko rūhā auhi (kei te māuiui, pākikini, mamae hoki). Pā noa mai ēnei, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te mahi te kano ārai mate. Me whakahau kia whakatā, ā, kia nui tonu te inu wai. He tino rerekē ngā pānga kino mai i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer, ā, i te nuinga o te wā ka pā mai i muri tonu i te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate. Nā tēnei, ka whakanohotia kōrua ko tō tamaiti ki tētahi wāhi mātai kia tirotirohia ai ia e ngā kaimahi haumanu hei whakarite ka whiwhi maimoatanga hauora ia ki te tūpono pā mai tēnei. Ngā tohu pānga kino pea ko te: uaua o te hēhē pupuhi o te kanohi me te korokoro tere o te kapa o te manawa kino o te kirikā o te tinana pōātinitini me te ngoikore. Mēnā ka kite koe kua pāngia tō tamaiti e tētahi o ēnei tohumate, me wawe te whakamōhio atu ki ngā kaimahi haumanu. Mēnā kāore koe i tētahi wāhi tuku kano ārai mate me waea atu ki 111 . He tino rerekē te pā mai o te myocarditis me te pericarditis engari he pānga kino ēnei nō te kano ārai mate Pfizer. I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, kāore i kitea ēnei i roto i ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau, engari he mea nui kia mōhio ki ngā tohumate mō ngā taipakeke katoa ka whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ki te pā mai tētahi o ēnei tohumate ki tō tamaiti i ngā rā, ngā wiki rānei i muri i te whiwhi kano ārai mate, me wawe tonu te whiwhi āwhina hauora. Ngā tohumate o te myocarditis me te pericarditis: he auhi, taumaha, kikī haere, mamae rānei tōna uma he uaua o te hēhē he tere te kapa o te manawa, he kakapa, pātukituki rānei he takarangi, nihinihi, āmaimai rānei. Kāore he utu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mō te tangata. Mai i te 17 o Hānuere, ka āhei ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki tamariki rānei te haere ki tētahi wāhi tuku kano ārai mate kuhu noa me ā rātau tamariki, te whakamahi rānei i te BookMyVaccine.nz (external link) hei whiwhi kano ārai mate me tō rātau kaiwhakarato hauora ake, whare rata rānei. Me mātua whakarite ka tīpakohia e koe te awhe taipakeke tika. Mēnā kei te hiahia koe ki te tāpui mō neke atu i te kotahi tamaiti, kāore rānei e taea e koe te tāpui tuihono, ka taea te waea atu ki COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 (8am–8pm, 7 rā i te wiki), ā, ka whakaritea e mātau te tāpuitanga mōu me te whakautu i ō pātai. E wātea ana ngā kaiwhakamāori. E wātea ana te Rōpū Tautoko Hauātanga i te Mane ki te Paraire, mai i te 8am ki te 8pm. Ka tautokona e rātau tō whānau me te tāpui i tētahi wāhui mōu. Ka taea anō e rātau te whakautu ō pātai mō ngā hiahia o tō tamaiti tae atu ki te wātea mai ki a rātau, ngā kōwhiringa ikiiki koreutu, ngā pānga rānei o te kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti. Waea ki 0800 28 29 26 ka pēhi 2 Patowaea koreutu ki 8988 Īmēra accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz Mō ētahi mōhiohio anō me ngā hono hei rangahau, haere ki: Unite Against COVID-19 Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Te Puni Kōkiri – Karawhiua.nz (external link) Te Manatū Mō Ngā Iwi o Te Moananui-a-Kiwa (external link) Me kōrero ki tētahi kaitohutohu matatau kei te COVID Vaccination Healthline – 0800 28 29 26 8am–8pm, 7 ra i te wiki. Te tiaki i ō tamariki mai i te KOWHEORI-19 | Protecting your tamariki from COVID-19 [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French -ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home News and data Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. What you need to know Vaccination rates around NZ Locations of interest If you have been at a location of interest Media conferences Traffic lights map Latest case numbers --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern provides an update on our response to COVID-19. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. All DHBs have completed a key part of preparations for Omicron with the roll out of boosters to staff and residents in all aged residential care facilities. --- Section Separator --- Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. --- Section Separator --- Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Report a breach online
Home News and data Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Data and statistics available COVID-19 cases Vaccine data NZ COVID Tracer app data COVID-19 data portal COVID-19 modelling reports Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 14 February 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 4,053,074 First doses administered 4,053,074 First doses administered 3,983,151 Second doses administered 3,983,151 Second doses administered 1,912,046 Booster doses administered 1,912,046 Booster doses administered 214,782 Pediatric doses administered 214,782 Pediatric doses administered --- Section Separator --- Check our vaccinations map to find out how many people in your DHB or small area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Last updated 14 February 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. This includes: Current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics Source of COVID-19 cases Testing for COVID-19 39 Cases in hospital 39 Cases in hospital 981 New community cases 981 New community cases 25 New cases at the border 25 New cases at the border 4,960 Number of active cases in current outbreak 4,960 Number of active cases in current outbreak --- Section Separator --- Last updated 14 February 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Testing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) 17,616 Number of tests in last 24 hours 17,616 Number of tests in last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | stats.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If the data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you’re a researcher. COVID-19 data resources | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home News and data Map of COVID-19 vaccination rates in New Zealand Find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- This map shows the vaccination rates for district health boards (DHBs) and small areas of New Zealand. Enter your address to see the proportion of people who have received their first or second dose in your area, compared with the national average. --- Section Separator --- Dose Ethnicity Map areas A Statistical Area 2 is similar to a suburb. National average is the percentage of eligible people in New Zealand who have received their first or second dose. There are 2,156 Statistical Area 2s and 20 DHBs with data that determine the ranking in the map and table. Areas with no land are not included. Data source: Ministry of Health (external link) Map key under 70% 70 to 79% 80 to 89% 90% and over Map key under 70% 70 to 79% 80 to 89% 90% and over A Statistical Area 2 is similar to a suburb. National average is the percentage of eligible people in New Zealand who have received their first or second dose. There are 2,156 Statistical Area 2s and 20 DHBs with data that determine the ranking in the map and table. Areas with no land are not included. Data source: Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 1-10 of 845 updates 14 Feb 2022 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern provides an update on our response to COVID-19. 14 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 14 Feb 2022 All DHBs have completed a key part of preparations for Omicron with the roll out of boosters to staff and residents in all aged residential care facilities. 13 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 12 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 11 Feb 2022 The exciting milestone has been reached, with the 'Big Boost' campaign continuing this weekend, encouraging boosters for those eligible. 11 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 10 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 10 Feb 2022 A new close contact exemption scheme will help keep critical supply chains running through Omicron. 09 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health.
New Zealand has reached a milestone of 10 million COVID-19 vaccines administered. This afternoon at around 2pm, the 10 millionth dose of the COVID-19 vaccine was administered. This has been helped by a big surge in boosters and a healthy uptake in tamariki aged 5 to 11 years old having their first paediatric dose. The number on its own tells a great story. But it is what it signifies for the people in our country that is the most important factor. Ten million vaccines, including more than 1.7 million boosters, means our communities already have a good level of protection against Omicron — with more to come. Every single one of our DHBs has now reached 90% of their population having received at least 1 vaccine dose. Kiwis have really pulled together to protect each other with 95% of people aged over 12 now fully vaccinated — one of the highest rates in the world. 61% per cent of people over 18 who are due for a booster have already had one — and this is climbing quickly. This is a major logistical achievement and the milestone is testament to the DHBs, hundreds of pharmacies, GPs, hauora, community providers and mobile clinics and other sites that have given the vaccine to everyone from our old to our young. The advocates and workers on the ground who work with those in our hardest-to-reach communities also deserve huge recognition. But of course, it is the people of New Zealand who have embraced the science and put their trust in the health system who deserve the biggest accolade. They should take a bow, and then take a breath and continue to encourage others to get vaccinated. A strong booster uptake in all our communities is our best defence against the Omicron variant. Being fully vaccinated is great, being boosted is even better. Book your vaccine now, whether it is your first, second or booster. Every dose counts. The ‘Big Boost’ campaign continues this weekend, promoting the booster dose to anyone 18 and over who has had their second dose more than 3 months ago. Many vaccination centres will be open extended hours over the weekend to encourage people to get their booster. Find a vaccination centre near you by visiting BookMyVaccine.nz (external link) or calling the Covid Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 for a whānau booking. The 10 million doses is made up of: 4,011,194 first doses 3,939,188 second doses 39,717 third primary doses for immunocompromised people 1,722,179 boosters 204,796 paediatrics doses.
As we know, along with vaccination, testing, good hygiene and physical distancing, good ventilation is important in minimising the risk of airborne transmission of the virus that causes COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Schools have done a good job keeping fresh air moving through their classrooms, but we know opening doors and windows to get fresh air flow will not always be practical. We expect the first 500 air cleaners to arrive in March 2022 and the remaining 4,500 to be delivered by June. These will be used in targeted areas within some schools in the coming months. It is important we keep our tamariki as safe as possible, so in addition to the investment in portable air cleaners, the Ministry is also exploring simple systems to assist air quality and natural ventilation in schools. --- Section Separator --- To help schools identify classrooms and other spaces which get good levels of fresh air flow and those that do not, schools will receive a ventilation self-assessment toolkit with a portable CO2 monitor they can use to help identify areas of concern and the right approaches to improve ventilation. These 2,500 portable CO2 monitors are in addition to more than 8,000 Internal Environment Monitors which are already in, or will soon be deployed, in schools early this year. The level of CO2 in a space is a good indicator of the freshness of the air. Any schools with concerns about ventilation are encouraged to reach out to the Ministry of Education for support. --- Section Separator --- Early observations of a joint study between NIWA and the Ministry of Education support opening windows and doors as the best way to boost the flow of fresh air in classrooms. It says that good ventilation removes air from inside and replaces it with clean air from outside, preventing the build-up of potentially contaminated air. The level of CO2 in a space is a good indicator of the freshness of the air. This aligns with the advice and views of international experts — that is that there is no substitute for fresh air flow. During the study there were days when opening doors and windows was less effective — for example, when there was no outdoor breeze, or when it rained and schools were not able to open windows and doors as often. We know there will be cases where schools need to supplement existing natural ventilation. It is important we keep our tamariki as safe as possible, so in addition to the investment in portable air cleaners, the Ministry is also exploring simple systems to assist air quality and natural ventilation in schools.
Cabinet has considered advice from the Director-General of Health and the COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group and decided to reduce the interval between a person’s primary vaccination course and the booster from 4 months to 3 months – starting this Friday, 4 February 2022. This is a significant step in our response to the COVID-19 pandemic as it now means a total of 3,063,823 people aged 18 and over – two thirds of our population – will be eligible for their booster from this weekend. Over 1.3 million people have already got theirs. The Government is urging every New Zealander who is eligible for a booster to get it as soon as possible. We are in a race against Omicron and the more people who are boosted the more we can reduce the impact of the outbreak. Bringing forward the booster timing will help those who have been immunised more recently. It will mean more people, especially Māori, will be able to receive a booster before Omicron takes hold in communities. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick from the Omicron variant of COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. Fewer hospitalisations from COVID-19 will mean our health system can continue to provide the full range of care people need, in particular for our most vulnerable such as people with disabilities or long-term illnesses. It is also important to reduce impacts on other workforces such as those involved with the supply chain to ensure people have access to goods and services. New Zealand is in the top 10 most highly vaccinated countries in the OECD – 94% of us aged over 12 are fully vaccinated. That’s close to 4 million New Zealanders, over a quarter of which have now also had their booster shot. Now is our opportunity to build on that. We have given ourselves a head start that we cannot afford to give up. If you are over 18 and it is 3 months since you received your primary vaccination course, get your booster. There is excellent capacity this weekend and in the coming weeks and enough supply throughout Aotearoa for everyone. Thank you to our vaccination providers and staff across the country who are working the long weekend to ensure New Zealanders have options to access their booster dose, wherever they are.
Older New Zealanders living in aged care facilities are some of the most vulnerable groups, so the completion of the booster rollout in all aged care facilities prior to an Omicron outbreak means we are well prepared. The most important thing anyone, including seniors, can do to protect themselves and their loved ones is get boosted. That’s why we rolled out boosters to older New Zealanders early. Ninety-nine percent of people over the age of 65 are fully vaccinated and 85 percent have now been boosted. This is an excellent turn out and we expect many more New Zealanders to do so as Omicron cases increase. Rising Omicron cases may cause some anxiety for our seniors and their whānau and that’s completely understandable given what we have seen overseas. In addition to boosters, we are also bolstering testing of staff in aged residential care when we move to Phase 2 and we will ensure that anyone working or living in these facilities with symptoms will be prioritised for a PCR test to protect high risk residents. On top of that, from Phase 2, aged residential care facilities are able to test asymptomatic visitors using rapid antigen tests. The Ministry of Health will be working with and supporting Aged Residential Care facilities to ensure their infection prevention controls are of the highest standard.
Two thirds of New Zealanders are now eligible for their booster, as new mask requirements come in to help keep people safe. If you got your second vaccination at least 3 months ago, you can walk-in or book to get your booster from today. There is plenty of capacity to get vaccinated this weekend and throughout February, wherever you are in the country. This is the best thing you can do to protect yourselves and your whānau as we prepare for Omicron. Get boosted, and wear a mask when you cannot distance from others. We will have a much better chance of facing the virus if we are well prepared. From 11:59pm last night (3 February) medical type masks became mandatory for those people who fall under a vaccine mandate and are in public-facing roles at work. For everyone else, masks are still mandatory on flights, public transport, in taxis, retail, public facilities, and in education for Year 4 and up. They are also now mandatory in close proximity businesses, food and drink businesses, at public events and gatherings. Masks can no longer be a t-shirt, bandana or scarf. It needs to cover your mouth and nose, and attach with ear or head loops. Ensuring you have the right mask, and that it is worn properly, will improve the overall effectiveness of wearing them and help reduce transmission of COVID-19, including Omicron. We are now looking to the next stages of our response to COVID-19 and Reconnecting New Zealanders to the world. We are preparing for the virus in our communities by putting measures in place to tackle it head on. Our high vaccination rates and climbing booster rate is our best defence from getting very sick from the virus, while masks help us to reduce the likelihood of passing it on to others or picking it up. These measures and continued good hygiene practices, alongside our phased plan to take on Omicron, will help keep our supply chains operating, economy ticking, people in work and kids in school. Everyone over 18 can check when they are due for a booster by visiting mycovidrecord.nz (external link) or if they have one, referring to their purple COVID-19 Vaccine appointment card or calling COVID Vaccination Healthline 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). Book your booster or find a walk-in vaccination centre at bookmyvaccine.nz (external link) or call COVID Vaccination Healthline 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). Whānau bookings (group bookings for more than one person) can be made by calling 0800 28 29 26 . COVID-19 vaccines will continue to be available at mobile and pop-up vaccination clinics, particularly in rural Māori communities as well as marae vaccinations where a number of kaumatua received their initial doses. Interpretation services, and text, email and NZ Relay options for deaf and hearing impaired are available if you need them on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). There is also a specialist team for disabled people (option 2 on the 0800 number). Workers who fall under a legal vaccine mandate and are in a public-facing role will be required to wear a medical-grade mask (Type IIR/Level 2 or above). Children in Year 4 and up will need to wear a mask on Ministry of Education funded school transport services and public transport, as well as in school. Teachers of students in Years 4 to 13 are required to wear medical-grade masks, as above. Everyone else must wear masks in close-proximity businesses, food and drink businesses, at events and gatherings. You will still be able to remove your mask when eating and drinking. This must be an actual mask with ear or head loops that covers both the nose and mouth properly and fits against the face. That means no more scarves, bandanas, or t-shirts pulled up. Most gatherings where guests have exclusive use of a defined space will not require guests to wear a mask, such as weddings. Workers (including volunteers) will continue to be required to wear a mask. People are not required to wear masks in non-public facing workplaces, but all employers should continue to think about mask use policies that protect their workforce. Masks are also not required when using gyms or swimming pools, however it is encouraged when moving around or in close proximity to others.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speaker: Deputy Prime Minister Grant Robertson Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference was held at 5:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference with ministers was held at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1:30pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Minister for the COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Ministry of Health Chief Science Advisor Ian Town Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speaker: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- Update on cases for 25 January 2022
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 2pm. Speaker: Associate Minister of Health Ayesha Verrall Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 11am. Speaker: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 11am. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Watch the media conference.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Watch the media conference.
Farmers and growers are getting a helping hand to prepare for Omicron. The Government has allocated $400,000 to support primary producers with contingency planning and response if a farmer or grower contracts COVID-19. The funding will bolster the resources of Rural Support Trusts and other organisations, including those supporting Māori agribusinesses, to help them respond to cases. This funding will help ensure there’s someone that farmers and growers can speak to and provide guidance should they or their staff be dealing with Omicron. The Rural Support Trusts are well woven into rural communities to provide wrap around support services. The sector has to date been resilient throughout the pandemic. The hard work of farmers and growers along with those involved in keeping supply chains open and exports flowing, is leading Aotearoa New Zealand’s trade-led recovery from COVID-19. The latest Situation and Outlook for Primary Industries (SOPI) shows revenue from food and fibre exports is predicted to hit a record $50 billion in the year to 30 June 2022. But the Government is committed to keeping vital workforces going. Primary producers have always been essential workers throughout the pandemic, but as Omicron reaches further into our communities, we are stepping up to ensure we can protect the wellbeing of our rural communities. The most important thing New Zealanders can do to prepare is to get their vaccine booster dose, before Omicron takes off in the community. Contingency planning by farmers, growers and lifestyle block owners will minimise the risk of further COVID-19 related disruptions, which can occur anywhere along the supply chain. It is vital all food and fibre producers have a plan. It makes it easier for other people to step in and help run your farm, or feed your livestock, at short notice. There are several free checklists available which have been developed by industry and MPI. We encourage people to make use of them. Wage support is also available through the Leave Support Scheme for people affected during this stage of the Omicron outbreak. This is available to employers, and also includes self-employed people, to help pay their employees who have been advised to self-isolate because of COVID-19 and cannot work at home during that period. It is paid at the same rates as the wage subsidy was previously, that being $600 per week per full-time worker and $359 per week per part-time worker. Our Rural Support Trusts do great work when things are at their most difficult in the provinces. Whether it is drought, floods, or now, a pandemic. The Trusts can respond in a case-by-case basis and make sure people aren’t left isolated. This includes ensuring that mental health is well-supported. The targeted funding is being administered by the Ministry for Primary Industries (MPI) and will initially be available until 1 April 2022, in line with the Government’s Covid-19 response planning. Download the COVID-19 on-farm checklist for farmers | fedfarm.org.nz (external link) Download the COVID-19 checklist for lifestyle block owners | fedfarm.org.nz (external link) Download the COVID-19 checklist for orchardists | hortnz.co.nz (external link) Download the COVID-19 checklist for winegrowers | nzwine.com (external link) COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme | workandincome.govt.nz (external link)
The funding will directly support Pacific community-led initiatives to encourage boosters and child vaccinations. The vaccine plays an important part in our preparations for Omicron. We need to ensure our 5 to 11 year old Pacific children are vaccinated and that all of our eligible Pacific peoples get their booster when they become due. It’s critical that we vaccinate our children before the coming winter . We’ve seen overseas how fast Omicron can overwhelm health care systems and impact essential services. Vaccination is the first step our families can take to prepare for Omicron. The Pacific community’s response to vaccinations has been excellent. National vaccination figures show that 97% have received their first dose, and 94% are fully vaccinated with two doses. However, data for booster uptake shows Pacific rates are still low in comparison with other communities in Aotearoa. Only 32% of Pacific people due for a booster have received one so far compared to 42% of Māori. “It’s important our Pacific communities continue with their great response to vaccinations. This top up of the Prepare Pacific Community Vaccination Fund will ensure our communities have the resources to achieve the high vaccination rates we need to keep safe. Pacific community groups predominantly in T āmaki Makaurau can apply for funding although groups from around Aotearoa are welcome to apply . Community groups, Pacific churches, Pacific youth groups and other groups that work with marginalised Pacific communities will be eligible to apply for up to $40,000. The Prepare Pacific Community Vaccination Fund, which is being managed by The Cause Collective, will run until 30 June 2022 or when funds have been fully distributed. Through this fund we are asking our Pacific communities to prepare for Omicron by getting your booster and vaccinating our young children. Omicron will challenge all of us, we will need to be ready in advance. We’ve met the challenge many times before, we must meet it again. More information about the Prepare Pacific Community Vaccination Fund (external link)
Through the course of managing Omicron, we will be taking a phased approach. As case numbers grow, both testing and isolation approaches will change in response. Other countries have had to adapt their response in the middle of widespread outbreaks. We are setting out the changes ahead of large case numbers to give people a clearer idea of what to expect and what they need to do at each phase. Almost no country in the world has escaped Omicron and New Zealand is no exception. But where we can be an exception is how well we minimise the impact of the virus and protect our people from it. Vaccination remains our most effective weapon against the virus. The Omicron variant is markedly less severe than prior variants. One US report suggests the hospitalisation rate is 10 times less than the Delta variant. Its transmission and severity is also reduced by vaccination. So far, we have been focused on keeping Omicron out of the community for as long as possible while we roll out vaccinations to children and boosters for our adult population. Now that it is here, we expect case numbers to grow rapidly and put our health system under considerable pressure. Here are the three phases for Omicron: --- Section Separator --- Phase One is where we are now, and we are doing what we have successfully done with Delta — taking a ‘stamp it out’ approach. Broadly speaking, that includes the same contact tracing, isolation, and request that everyone who is symptomatic be tested at a community testing station or at a primary health provider. If you are required to isolate, you will receive advice and — if needed — support to do so. At this phase you will need to isolate for 14 days if you are a case, and 10 days if you are contact. Our objective is to keep cases as low as possible for as long as possible to allow people to be boosted and children to be vaccinated without Omicron being widespread. --- Section Separator --- In Phase Two, our objective is to slow the spread and protect our vulnerable communities. The system will be adjusted to focus much more on identifying those who are at greater risk of severe illness from Omicron — which will be a smaller percentage of cases. In Phase Two, we will reduce the isolation period for cases to 10 days and contacts to 7 days in line with best practice overseas. Household contacts will actively be managed by contact tracing services, with close contacts requiring a PCR test on day 5. A rapid escalation in case numbers and the resulting pressure on our resources will also require us to shift from identifying all infected individuals to being more targeted to those most at risk and those needed to keep the country going. Digital technology is used more in this phase. Cases will be notified via text message and be directed to an online self-investigation tool which will focus on high-risk exposures. Information will be provided via email and phone-based interviews will still take place where it’s required. Other forms of support will be available to those who need it. We will also change our current testing requirements for critical workers who are close contacts of cases. The prime focus of testing and tracing will be protecting this workforce and those most vulnerable to becoming severely unwell. Phase Two is where we will see more widespread use of the test to return-to-work policy where asymptomatic contacts in critical workforces can return a negative rapid antigen test in order to go to work. We will continue to manage testing of symptomatic people and Close Contacts with PCR testing but we will be enabling ‘test to return’ for asymptomatic critical workers who are close contacts of cases using rapid antigen tests (RATs). These are people like our healthcare workers and those working in food supply and infrastructure who are key to our response to COVID-19 and also in ensuring New Zealanders can continue to access the services they need. RATs will be integrated into our testing system at this phase and will work alongside PCR tests. They will be useful when the laboratories cannot provide PCR results within a useful time frame because of large volumes or because of transport delays. --- Section Separator --- At Phase Three, when cases are in the thousands, we will make further changes to contact tracing. The definition of contacts will change to household and household like contacts only. This will mean the highest risk contacts will need to isolate. Supported self-service, rapid antigen testing for diagnosing COVID-19 and a self-service tool to enable identification of high-risk contacts will be significant to respond to the high volumes of Omicron cases. Digital technologies will continue to be utilised at this phase, and people will be supported to self-notify Close Contacts. There will be continued support for those members of our community who are not digitally enabled. The majority of people will be supported and be able to self-manage and isolate at home; and clinical care will focus on anyone with high needs. Clinical care and welfare support will be targeted based on need. Through the course of Phase Two and Three, we have a test to return regime that will apply to our critical workforces, to keep them going through the outbreak. Our plan is simple — get boosted, wear a mask, follow basic hygiene rules we’ve become so familiar with and reduce contact as much as is practical. We have slowed the virus from entering the community and given households and businesses time to prepare. As always, it’s what each and everyone one of us can do as individuals that will make a difference. Omicron is now in more than 80 countries around the world. By delaying its arrival here we’ve had the time to kick off boosters, vaccinations for children, and prepare. I encourage everyone to use the coming days to take steps at home and with your family, neighbours and community to make a plan. Resources to help you do this are on the Unite Against Covid-19 website. Be prepared for COVID-19 Our response to Omicron
A further 16 million tests have been secured from CoShield for the Assure Tech Eco-Test to be delivered over February and March also. New Zealand to have access to over 55 million RATs over the next eight weeks RAT manufacturer confirms no private sector orders have been reassigned in order to meet Government order. --- Section Separator --- The Government has secured the delivery of enough rapid antigen tests (RATs) to help New Zealand through a widespread Omicron outbreak in the coming months. Last week and over the weekend the Government has been in contact with a variety of rapid antigen test manufacturers. Those efforts have resulted in securing an additional 36 million tests for delivery over the next two months which corresponds with a predicted rise in Omicron cases. These additional 36 million tests are on top of the 16.9 million orders already confirmed for delivery in February. Along with the 5.1 million tests already in the country, New Zealanders will have access to over 55 million rapid antigen tests in the coming two months. A total of 123 million rapid antigen tests have been ordered through to June, which will allow for regular and widespread testing to occur. Modelling on the use of rapid antigen tests through the outbreak suggests that during the peak we may be using as many as nine million RATs a week which is equivalent to testing a quarter of New Zealand every day, or all of New Zealand twice a week. That scale of testing will go a long way to reducing the risk of an infected person going to work and infecting others, and will help with keeping critical services and supply chains open and moving. In the past week two more types of rapid antigen test have been approved for use in New Zealand, bringing the total number to 11, with several more going through the approval process. The Ministry of Health and ESR continue to only approve tests that meet a very high threshold for quality to reduce the number of false positives and negatives. Many of the RATs will be used to implement our ‘test to return’ policy for asymptomatic critical workers so our hospitals, supermarkets and other services that keep the country running can continue operating. The Government can also confirm today that one of the major suppliers of tests, Abbott, has corresponded with the Ministry of Health confirming that no tests ordered by the private sector prior to the Government’s largest order in January have been used to fill Government orders. There is significant global supply constraint at the moment so the Government is working alongside business to assist with ensuring orders are met. Some suppliers have continued to meet all their private sector orders while others have been forced to prioritise. The Government is actively working with suppliers to support the private sector get access to RATs in a competitive global market. If businesses can find an approved supply of RATs and they can import them, there is nothing stopping businesses from using these tests. The use and supply of RATs will continue to be prioritised to ensure we are protecting the vulnerable and to enable asymptomatic critical workers to return to work. These additional supplies will go a long way to ensuring those who most need a test can access one.
Congratulations to all of our communities, health providers, partners and iwi for their part in this achievement, in particular Māori health providers that operate throughout the motu including some of our most remote regions. This is a significant accomplishment that should be celebrated, and speaks to the commitment Māori have to whānau and wider communities. With Omicron now in our communities, the mahi continues, and we don’t stop at 90% first doses. We want as many Māori as possible to get double dosed and boosted to ensure those in all our communities have the best protection possible. From our kaumātua seeking boosters through to the parents of our 5-11 year old tamariki, we continue to work hard to ensure all communities have the information and access to the COVID-19 vaccine when and where they are throughout Aotearoa. While we have reached 90% first doses for Māori across Aotearoa, we continue to support the regions that are yet to reach their individual communities to get to 90 percent. We are also focused on the importance of whānau Māori being fully vaccinated to ensure the broadest protection, and this includes getting a booster. So far, 116,557 Māori have had their booster, which is around 42% of those that have due so far. Two doses are effective for the Delta variant, but it is clear that we all need a booster if we are going to beat Omicron. We encourage everyone who had their second dose more than 3 months ago to get their booster as soon as possible. Please encourage your whānau and friends to get vaccinated and get the booster when you can.
Following a public health risk assessment, from 27 February 2022, travellers from Tonga entering Aotearoa New Zealand will be required to meet some public health requirements, with phased-in changes for travellers from Tonga on flights beginning tomorrow. Passengers arriving on the 15 February flight will undertake a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) on days 0/1 and 5/6 but will not be required to enter self-isolation unless they test positive. Passengers arriving on the 22 February flight and thereafter will be required to self-isolate for 7 days on arrival in New Zealand and undertake a RAT on days 0/1 and 5/6. During this time, all travellers are encouraged to monitor for symptoms and requested to avoid high-risk settings such as hospitality and large gatherings. They must report any positive RAT and take a follow-up PCR test to confirm their result. If they test positive standard isolation measures will be applied to them. The decisions taken around the 15 and 22 February flights have been made to lessen the impact of this change and minimise any disruption to travellers, noting that Tonga is recovering from the recent volcanic eruption and tsunami. Aotearoa New Zealand has been pleased to welcome Recognised Seasonal Employer (RSE) workers from Tonga under QFT. We will work through things to minimise disruption for RSE workers and employers under the new settings. Aotearoa New Zealand is committed to continuing to support Tonga with its COVID-19 response, including through vaccine support. More information about travel from Tonga to New Zealand
New exemption scheme established with aim of keeping critical supply chains running. Close Contacts can keep going to work instead of isolating if they return a negative rapid antigen test. Businesses will self-assess against criteria to join scheme. In addition, government confirms Close Contacts who work alone can continue to operate in a bubble of one. We have seen overseas that a combination of high rates of Omicron alongside isolation periods for contacts has put severe strain on supply chains and the provision of important services. The Government has for weeks been working with industry bodies and critical services to set up a workable scheme that gives their workers an exemption from Close Contact isolation requirements, if they return daily negative tests. The scheme will be supported by rapid antigen tests supplied either directly by the business or service, or through our health system in an easy and accessible way. From today, businesses and organisations can register online as a critical service if they think they will meet the criteria when we enter Phase 2. Registration includes a declaration and will be able to be checked. Critical services include: food production and its supply chain key public services like health and emergency services lifeline utilities such as power and water supplies transport critical financial services news media social welfare human and animal health and welfare. It is up to businesses to self-assess and decide if they want to participate in the scheme. In doing so there needs to be an awareness that bringing Close Contacts into the workplace will come with risks. While the new scheme will help businesses continue to operate, rapid antigen testing is about 80% accurate. This may mean they have someone onsite who has COVID-19 and could infect other workers, which could further compromise business operations. Any workers identified for the scheme will need to be vaccinated. If at any point they return a positive test, they will need to take a PCR test and isolate. Those businesses that decide to register will be issued with a letter that, when New Zealand shifts to Phase 2 of our Omicron response, will enable eligible workers to either use rapid antigen tests that their employers may hold, or collect rapid antigen tests from a collection site. Workers will get enough testing kits to cover the period they would have been isolating, and the places they can pick them up from will be put on the Healthpoint website. We know isolation is the best way to stop the chain of transmission so businesses and workers involved in the scheme will need to continue to play their part in reducing the spread of the virus by complying with daily symptom checks, and other health measures while at work. Workers will also be expected to remain in isolation outside of work hours as they will in many instances be living with household members who have Omicron. In addition to this exemption scheme, we are also confirming today the guidelines for people who either work alone, or have the capacity to do so. These workers will be able to continue operating in a 'bubble of one' if they are identified as a contact. That means for instance farmers, or sole traders including plumbers and residential builders, who operate out of their own space and work alone can continue to do that as long as they: are vaccinated do not have symptoms do not have contact with anyone else. These guidelines apply to any workers, not just critical workers, and do not require them to return regular tests. We are taking a pragmatic approach to Omicron and its management. These changes strike a balance between continuing to keep people safe, but also keep businesses and services operating as smoothly as possible. More information including how to apply and the criteria for self-assessment are on the business.govt.nz website: Testing and returning to work during Omicron (external link) The Close Contact Exemption Scheme is in addition to changes already confirmed for Phases 2 and 3 relating to isolation periods and close contact definitions. Our response to Omicron
Our border will reopen to vaccinated New Zealanders from Australia at 11.59pm 27 February 2022. We will reopen to New Zealanders in the rest of the world on 13 March 2022. MIQ removed for most travellers in phased reconnection, replaced by self-isolation and tests on-arrival. MIQ to remain for the unvaccinated. Five- step plan prioritises returning New Zealanders and brings forward the reopening of key visa categories in just over 5 weeks’ time in order to address worker shortages. Further visa categories reopen throughout the year to help accelerate economic recovery. --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand border will reopen to vaccinated Kiwis and other current eligible travellers from Australia at 11.59pm on 27 February 2022, and to the same groups from the rest of the world only two weeks later on 13 March 2022. The Government’s reconnecting plan will see all New Zealanders and key visa holders able to start to enter the country over the coming three months, assisting with the economic recovery and immediately address worker shortages. This is a very carefully developed plan that replaces managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) for the vast majority of travellers while ensuring we maintain ongoing measures to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in our community from recent arrivals. With 94% of our population fully vaccinated, and 92% of those over 18 now eligible for a booster by the end of February it’s time to shift gears in our COVID-19 response to focus on reconnection and recovery. By reducing the gap to get boosted to three months we’re ensuring we reach our highest possible boosted rates before fully reopening. By the time we start to reopen our border, we’ll be one of the most vaccinated and most boosted countries in the world and the COVID-19 Protection Framework will be well established in helping to manage COVID outbreaks. Our plan has built in protections to help manage risks such as future variants. A phased approach to reopening reduces the risk of a surge of cases, while prioritising the return of New Zealanders and much needed entry of skilled workers. Having MIQ for every traveller was a temporary setting for when none of us had protection. New Zealanders need to reconnect with one another. Families and friends need to reunite. Our businesses need skills to grow. Exporters need to travel to make new connections. --- Section Separator --- Step Timing Travellers Reopen to New Zealanders and other eligible travellers under current border settings (e.g. people with border exceptions) from Australia Reopen to New Zealanders and other eligible travellers under current border settings from the rest of the world Open to skilled workers earning at least 1.5 times the median wage Open to Working Holiday Scheme visas Open to current offshore temporary visa holders, who can still meet the relevant visa requirements, Open to up to 5000 international students for semester 2 Further class exceptions for critical workforces that do not meet the 1.5 times the median wage test will be considered Open to anyone from Australia Open for visa-waiver travel The Accredited Employer Work Visa will open, meaning the skilled and health worker border exception can be phased out Border fully reopens to visitors from anywhere in the world, and all visa categories fully reopen. --- Section Separator --- From 27 February 2022, vaccinated New Zealanders and eligible travellers from Australia will be able to enter New Zealand without staying in MIQ and two weeks later from 13 March 2022, New Zealanders and eligible travellers from the rest of the world will be able to come home. While travellers will no longer need to stay in MIQ we are maintaining border measures to reduce the spread of the virus. The self-isolation requirements for travellers will mirror the way we treat contacts of cases in New Zealand. That means a current requirement of 10 days, but that will drop to 7 days when we move to Phase 2 of our pandemic plan as cases rise. Isolation requirements will be kept under constant review, and we do expect them to reduce. The reopening to visa free tourists is also likely to be brought forward, with July being the latest date we anticipate this happening. All arrivals will be provided three rapid antigen tests at the airport, one for use on day 0/1, and one for use on day 5/6, with one extra for backup. This approach means we will continue to identify cases that enter through the border and limit their wider contact with the community. In addition we will continue to whole genome sequence all returnees who test positive to rapidly identify and respond to new variants. --- Section Separator --- This plan represents a significant step forward in addressing skills and labour shortages and accelerates our economic recovery. Reopening of the border to a range of visa holders is a critical part in our plan to rebuild from COVID-19. From 13 March 2022, just over 5 weeks away, we will start re-opening Working Holiday Visa schemes. This will supply urgently needed workers for the tourism, hospitality, wine and horticultural sectors as well as providing some much-needed visitor spending. Also from 13 March 2022, we’re simplifying the application process for the critical worker border exception. Skilled workers with job offers paying at least 1.5 times, instead of double, the median wage will be able to come in without the need to demonstrate that their skills aren’t readily obtainable in New Zealand. Before COVID-19, New Zealand was issuing over one million visitor visas per year . What’s being announced today is about gearing up in manageable steps to fully re-open as safely as possible to enable us to live with COVID-19 but not be overwhelmed by it.
New Zealand medicines regulator Medsafe has granted provisional approval of the Novavax COVID-19 vaccine, Nuvaxovid, for adults 18 years and over. Medsafe have ensured that COVID-19 vaccine applications are prioritised and urgently reviewed, while still maintaining the same scrutiny that all medicine applications undergo before they can be approved. Medsafe has now approved COVID-19 vaccines that use 3 different technologies. Medsafe only approves a vaccine or medicine for use in New Zealand once it is satisfied that it has met acceptable standards for quality, safety and efficacy. Medsafe’s provisional approval is one step in a process. Ministers will consider advice from the Ministry of Health about whether to use Nuvaxovid vaccine in New Zealand. Guidance will also be provided by the COVID-19 Vaccine Science and Technical Advisory Group. Other regulators have also approved Nuvaxovid vaccine, including the European Medicines Agency and the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration. An agreement has been made with Novavax to purchase 10.72 million doses of Nuvaxovid COVID-19 vaccine. Nuvaxovid is a 2-dose protein subunit vaccine. Following CV-TAG advice and pending Cabinet’s decision to use, officials are working with Novavax to establish delivery options as early as Q1 2022. New Zealand may seek to donate some doses of Novavax to support global vaccination efforts (which could include through COVAX), though this decision has not been made yet. Read more about the process for approving COVID-19 vaccines | medsafe.govt.nz (external link)
Public health officials are continuing to manage Omicron cases in the community through rapidly isolating cases and contacts, contact tracing, and testing in order to slow the spread. To date, there are 29 community cases of COVID-19 associated with the January Omicron Cluster — all are in isolation. Amongst these cases, today we are reporting an additional 10 community cases. These include: 1 case in Nelson Tasman that is a household contact of a previously reported case and was already isolating when they tested positive. 1 case in Palmerston North that is a household contact of a previously reported case and was already isolating when they tested positive. 2 cases in Tauranga. Both cases are in the same household and are isolating at home. Case investigations are ongoing but, at this stage, there are a limited number of exposure events associated with these cases. --- Section Separator --- All these cases have been linked, directly or indirectly, to a family event and other associated events in Auckland on the weekend of 15 and 16 January. The number of cases and contacts are expected to grow given the highly transmissible nature of Omicron and as we learn more from case interviews. In addition, the Ministry wants to thank the Nelson-Tasman family associated with this cluster for coming forward and getting tested when they became symptomatic. Their cooperation has been instrumental in identifying locations of interests, additional contacts, and cases, all of which helps slow the spread of Omicron in our communities. At this stage, it is believed the family became infected while in Auckland, not in the Nelson-Tasman region. As part of our collective preparations for Omicron, please check your details are up to date with your regular healthcare provider and in the NZ COVID Tracer app. We also continue to urge anyone with symptoms, or anyone who has been to a location of interest at the times notified, to isolate immediately and get tested promptly. --- Section Separator --- A case from the January Omicron cluster also attended a second private event in Auckland during their infectious period. The exposure occurred on the evening of Sunday 16 January at the Pukekohe Indian Hall in Auckland. Find more detail about this location of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) Auckland Regional Public Health Service believe a large number of people attended this event. Anyone at this location at the relevant times is asked to get tested immediately, and self-isolate until a negative result has been returned. Please also record your visit online on the Locations of Interest website, or by contacting Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Further information, isolation and testing requirements will be provided by contact tracers. Further locations of interest have been identified across Auckland and the Nelson Tasman region and will be published on the Ministry’s website as they are confirmed. We are encouraging everyone in these regions to check the locations of interest and follow the public health advice. There will be people from outside of these regions who may have visited those locations at the same time period, so it is important for anyone who has been in these locations over the past week to check the website and see if they are included in that time the case was there. It is also a timely reminder to all potential close contacts of a case to either call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or record their visit online to a location of interest and follow advice from a health professional, as this is advice is specific to an individual and the exposure event. A reminder that there is a Section 70 notice in place which puts a legal requirement on all people who were at locations of interest at the relevant times to follow the instructions regarding isolation and testing. Failure to comply can result in a fine of up to $4,000 or imprisonment for up to 6 months. --- Section Separator --- Update on COVID-19 cases — 25 January 2022
Public health officials continue to manage Omicron cases in the community by rapidly isolating cases and contacts, contact tracing, and testing to slow the spread. To date, there are 56 community cases of COVID-19 that have been confirmed as an Omicron case through whole genome sequencing, or are a suspected Omicron case because they have an identified link to a confirmed Omicron case. Whole genome sequencing is underway for all suspected Omicron cases to confirm the variant. These include 44 cases linked directly or indirectly, to a family event and other associated events in Auckland on the weekend of 15 and 16 January. The additional 15 cases being reported today are in Auckland, Taranaki, and Nelson Marlborough. Further details are included in the regional updates section. In addition, there is a total of 12 cases linked to the three border workers reported earlier this month with confirmed or suspected Omicron, an increase of six. Including the border workers themselves, there are now a total of eight cases associated with the MIQ border worker first reported on 16 January, and three associated with the Auckland airport worker first reported on 21 January. There have been no additional cases linked to Auckland airport worker first reported on 19 January. The number of cases and contacts are expected to grow given the highly transmissible nature of Omicron and as we learn more from case interviews. As part of our collective preparations for Omicron, please check your details are up to date with your regular healthcare provider and in the COVID-19 Tracer app. We also continue to urge anyone with symptoms, or anyone who has been to a location of interest at the times notified to isolate immediately and get tested promptly as advised on the locations of interest webpage. Locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Update on COVID-19 cases — 26 January 2022
Public health teams are continuing to manage Omicron cases in the community through rapidly isolating cases and contacts, contact tracing, and testing to slow the spread. To date, there are 90 community cases of COVID-19 that are either confirmed as Omicron variant or have been linked to previously reported Omicron case, an increase of 34. There are active cases being treated as Omicron in Auckland, Waikato, Bay of Plenty, Taranaki, Palmerston North, and Nelson Tasman. Many of these additional cases have previously been reported as COVID-19 cases and linked retrospectively either through whole genome sequencing or epidemiologically. Therefore, many are not included in today’s reported new COVID-19 community cases. The number of cases and contacts are expected to grow given the highly transmissible nature of Omicron and as we learn more from case interviews. As part of our collective preparations for Omicron, please check your details are up to date with your regular healthcare provider and in the COVID-19 Tracer app. We also continue to urge anyone with symptoms, or anyone who has been to a location of interest at the times notified, to take health advice, isolate immediately and get tested promptly. Being prepared also means remembering the basics - wash your hands, stay at home if you’re unwell, wear a mask when you can’t physically distance and get vaccinated, including a booster. --- Section Separator --- Update on COVID-19 cases — 27 January 2022
Public health teams are continuing to manage Omicron cases in the community through rapidly isolating cases and contacts, contact tracing, and testing to slow the spread. --- Section Separator --- To date, 105 community cases of COVID-19 have either been confirmed as the Omicron variant or have been linked to a previously reported Omicron case. This is an increase of 15 since yesterday. Some of these additional cases have previously been reported as COVID-19 cases and linked retrospectively either through whole genome sequencing or epidemiologically. Therefore, some are not included in today’s reported new COVID-19 community cases. There are active cases being treated as Omicron in: Auckland Waikato Bay of Plenty Taranaki MidCentral Nelson-Tasman. The number of cases and contacts are expected to grow given the highly transmissible nature of Omicron and as we learn more from case interviews. --- Section Separator --- We’re asking everyone in New Zealand to act like Omicron is circulating in their community. That means: wearing a mask in indoor settings with people you don’t know physical distancing, and scanning in using the COVID-19 Tracer app, when you’re out and about. Anyone with any cold or flu symptoms that could be COVID-19 is asked to get a test and isolate at home until a negative result is returned. The most common early symptoms of the Omicron variant are a sore or scratchy throat, and a runny nose. So if you have these symptoms, please get a test. --- Section Separator --- Update on COVID-19 cases — 28 January 2022
To date, 116 community cases of COVID-19 have either been confirmed by Whole Genome Sequencing as the Omicron variant or have been linked to a previously reported Omicron case. Some of these additional cases have previously been reported as COVID-19 cases and linked retrospectively either through whole genome sequencing or epidemiologically. As of 9am this morning, there has been 39 cases connected to the Soundsplash music festival in Hamilton last weekend. However, this number will grow as further test results are received. Given the increase in cases associated with Soundsplash, the Ministry of Health advises all attendees to get a test, if they have not already done so. If you attended the festival, please let the testing centre know that you were at the festival. Two of the four community cases in Canterbury reported earlier in the week have now been determined to be Omicron. There are active cases being treated as Omicron in Auckland, Waikato, Bay of Plenty, Taranaki, MidCentral, Canterbury, Tairāwhiti and Nelson-Tasman. The number of cases and contacts are expected to grow given the highly transmissible nature of Omicron and as we learn more from case interviews. We’re asking everyone in New Zealand to act like Omicron is circulating in their community. That means wearing a mask in indoor settings with people you don’t know, physical distancing, washing hands regularly and scanning in using the COVID-19 Tracer app, when you’re out and about. Anyone with any cold or flu symptoms that could be COVID-19 is asked to get a test and isolate at home until a negative result is returned. The most common early symptoms of the Omicron variant are a sore or scratchy throat, and a runny nose. So if you have these symptoms, please get a test.
Public health teams are continuing to manage Omicron cases in the community through rapidly isolating cases and contacts, contact tracing, and testing to slow the spread. We are expecting the number of cases connected to the Soundsplash music festival in Hamilton last weekend to grow over the coming days as further test results are received. The Ministry of Health is continuing to advise all attendees to get a test, if they have not already done so. We’re continuing to ask everyone in New Zealand to act as if Omicron is circulating in their community. That means wearing a mask, physical distancing and scanning in using the COVID-19 Tracer app, when you’re out and about. The most common early symptoms of the Omicron variant are a sore or scratchy throat, and a runny nose. So if you have these symptoms, please get a test, and stay at home until you get a negative result. Testing and vaccination centres | Healthpoint.co.nz (external link)
We have continued to adapt our public health response to safeguard the health and wellbeing of all New Zealanders throughout this pandemic. This includes ensuring we have the best tools and technology in place to detect and help minimise the spread of the highly transmissible Omicron variant. Labs have already processed 5,906,843 tests to date, and our highest testing day so far was 24 August 2021 when 49,736 tests were completed. A rapid rise in case numbers will require us to shift from identifying all infected individuals to being more targeted to those most at risk and those needed to maintain critical infrastructure. To do this, testing remains a cornerstone of our response. Nasopharyngeal PCR tests will continue to be used as the primary diagnostic test in our initial phase of dealing with Omicron in the community. This will be supplemented by wider use of rapid antigen testing. Significant progress has been made to refine our approach since the review undertaken by the Ministry of Health’s COVID-19 Testing Technical Advisory Group (TAG), led by Professor David Murdoch in October last year. Since the time of the review the following actions have been implemented to ensure fit-for-purpose Covid-19 testing in New Zealand: Increased our PCR testing capacity from a maximum of 39,000 tests a day to a baseline of 58,000 tests. Surge capacity is now 77,600 tests, which can be sustained for 7 days. Progressing the installation of automated technology designed to increase capacity in all testing laboratories to free up lab technicians and eliminate risk of mistakes with repetitive tasks. Introduced saliva testing to 4,000 border workers. Reviewed and revised the assessment criteria for Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs) to make it easier to have a new product to undergo a full assessment. Continued to ensure any approved product meets minimum quality and standards suitable for use in New Zealand. Doubled the number of types of RATs approved for import, supply and use in New Zealand and we will continue to approve more cases throughout this week. Engaged with manufacturers and suppliers of tests that might meet the criteria but who have not yet applied for approval for importation, supply and use in New Zealand. Expanded the authorisation so any New Zealand-based businesses with a registered New Zealand Business Number (NZBN) can import, supply, distribute, or sell approved RATs to any authorised persons or classes of persons without having to go through an authorised importer. Using rapid PCR testing in certain hospital settings. Since December 2021, businesses have been able to order approved rapid antigen tests direct from importers for use with their workforce. These tests are also used across our health system, including aged residential care. Rapid development of testing capability and capacity, using various testing modes that respond and adapt to changes in the virus, has been a core aspect of our testing strategy. We have combined this with scientific, public health, human behaviour and operational considerations to establish robust testing regimes for different stages of the pandemic. Further detail on how New Zealand will manage Omicron through the various phases of community spread will be announced on Wednesday.
There were 22,508 booster doses administered yesterday, taking the total to date to 1,324,160. Also, 5,826 paediatric doses were given yesterday, bringing the total to 169,316. With Omicron in New Zealand, the best thing you can do is get your booster as soon as it is due. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick and being hospitalised. Being boosted also helps slow the spread of the virus. If you’re over 18 and your booster is due, please get it now. Evidence to date is that the rate of adverse reactions to a booster dose is similar to people receiving their second dose. --- Section Separator --- 126 new community cases: 5 in Northland 84  in Auckland 20 in Waikato 2 in Tairāwhiti 1 in Lakes 8 in Bay of Plenty 2 in Hawke’s Bay 1 in Taranaki 1 in Wellington 2 in Nelson Marlborough 1 in Canterbury 79 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
306 new community cases 30 new cases identified at the border 12 cases in hospital The Big Boost Week is now in full swing with 56,257 booster doses administered across New Zealand yesterday, bringing the total so far to more than 1.7 million. With Omicron in New Zealand, the best thing you can do is get your booster as soon as it is due. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick and being hospitalised. It also helps slow the spread of the virus. That is why it is important to get your booster 4 months after your second dose — so if you are over 18 and your booster is due, please get it now. As case numbers increase, we are putting in place changes to the way case numbers and other details are reported in our daily updates. Reporters in the Parliamentary Press Gallery have been consulted on these changes. We are reflecting these changes in the update today, however it is important to reinforce that we still have the key figures included here, and available online, including New Zealand’s case numbers — by total, at the border, in the community and by DHB region. Vaccination results will also continue to be fully reported. For the public, as cases of Omicron continue to be identified around the country, it is important New Zealanders are as ready as they can be if they contract the virus or come into contact with someone else who has the virus. Make sure you have your personal plans ready, and follow the key public health advice of getting vaccinated, boosted, tested (if you are symptomatic) and masking up. Find more information on exactly what phases 1 and 2 mean and for information about the supports available in the different phases: Our response to Omicron A case of COVID-19 has been confirmed in Queenstown this morning. This is the first community case in the Southern DHB this outbreak. The case was notified after our cut off period so will be added to official figures tomorrow. Anyone in the Queenstown area who has cold or flu like symptoms, even if they are mild and are vaccinated, or has been at a location of interest should get tested. Please stay home or at your accommodation until you return a negative COVID-19 test result, and you are symptom free. --- Section Separator --- Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 4,049,971 first doses (96%) 3,977,640 second doses (95%) 1,723,253 booster doses (55%) Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 515,311 first doses (90%) 490,772 second doses (86%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 278,549 first doses (97%) 271,263 second doses (95%) Paediatric vaccines administered to date (percentage of 5-11-year-olds): Total: 204,727 first doses (43%) Māori: 28,240 first doses (24%) Pacific People: 16,533 first doses (33%) Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
446 new community cases 32 new cases identified at the border 23 cases in hospital The Big Boost continues today, promoting the booster dose to anyone over 18 who has had their second dose more than 3 months ago. Many vaccination centres will be open extended hours over the weekend to encourage people to get their booster. It is great to see that 43% of children in the 5 to 11 age group have already had their first dose. We want as many children as possible to be protected through vaccination. Yesterday more than 50,000 booster doses were given, bringing the total so far to 1,772,914. The most important step you can take to prepare for Omicron is getting your booster dose as soon as it is due. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick and being hospitalised, Book your vaccine now, whether it’s your first, second or booster. Every dose counts. The increase in cases today is a reminder that, as expected, the Omicron variant is spreading in our communities as we have seen in other countries. The number of cases will continue to fluctuate from day to day, but our expectation is that cases will continue to increase in the coming weeks. All of us can all play our part to slow the spread of the virus, help protect our most vulnerable people from being infected, and ensure our health system is able to manage extra demand for services. This means continuing to do the basics well — staying home if unwell, and wearing a mask, physical distancing and scanning in using the NZ COVID Tracer app when you’re out and about. Masks are most effective when worn properly — fitted snug and close to the face. Anyone with any cold or flu symptoms that could be COVID-19 is asked to get a test and isolate at home until a negative result is returned. The most common early symptoms of the Omicron variant are a sore or scratchy throat, and a runny nose. Even if you develop a small sniffle, please get a test. --- Section Separator --- Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 4,050,994 first doses (96%) 3,979,470 second doses (95%) 1,773,996 booster doses (55%) Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 515,614 first doses (90%) 491,451 second doses (86%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 278,741 first doses (97%) 271,547 second doses (95%) Paediatric vaccines administered to date (percentage of 5-11-year-olds): Total: 206,782 first doses (43%) Māori: 28,685 first doses (24%) Pacific People: 16,714 first doses (33%) Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
454 new community cases 8 new cases identified at the border 27 cases in hospital 24,820 total tests in the last 24 hours Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 4,052,086 first doses (96%) 3,981,374 second doses (95%) 1,839,877 booster doses (58%) 209,275 paediatric first doses (44%) Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 515,891 first doses (90%) 492,036 second doses (86%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 278,901 first doses (97%) 271,785 second doses (95%) COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Tairāwhiti has reached two vaccination milestones today; their eligible population reached 90% fully vaccinated –the 18th DHB to do so – and it’s eligible Māori population reached 90% first doses. The Tairāwhiti DHB has worked in partnership with local providers and advocates to ensure as many people as possible have had the opportunity to get vaccinated. This includes reaching those in the region’s most remote communities with vaccination vans. Yesterday afternoon, New Zealand’s ten millionth vaccine dose was administered. This incredible milestone is a testament to the country’s commitment to vaccination as a safe and effective way to protect ourselves against COVID-19. A high rate of vaccination helped us minimise the most severe effects of Delta. With Omicron spreading around the country, getting vaccinated continues to be our best defence against COVID-19. The Big Boost Week continues to see tens of thousands of people going out to get their booster dose each day. Yesterday, there were 57,364 boosters administered. If it’s been three months since you got your second dose, please get your booster as soon as possible. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick and being hospitalised. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
810 new community cases 25 new cases identified at the border 32 cases in hospital 22,196 total tests in the last 24 hours 1,891,241 booster doses administered (58%) COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- The sharp increase in new cases today is another reminder that, as expected, the highly transmissible Omicron variant is now spreading in our communities as we have seen in other countries. Our expectation is that cases will continue to increase over the coming weeks and we’re asking people to do all they can to slow the spread of the virus and protect themselves and their whānau. The most important step anyone can take to prepare for Omicron is to book their vaccine, whether it’s their first, second or booster. Every dose counts and lowers the chances of getting very sick and being hospitalised. We are also continuing to remind people to do the basics well – staying home if you’re unwell, wearing a mask, physical distancing and scanning in using the NZ COVID Tracer app when you’re out and about. Anyone with cold or flu symptoms that could be COVID-19 is asked to get a test and isolate at home until a negative result is returned. The most common early symptoms of the Omicron variant are a sore or scratchy throat, and a runny nose. Even if you develop a small sniffle, please get a test. Thank you to the more than 214,000 New Zealanders who have so far rolled up their sleeves to get their booster shot during ‘The Big Boost’ – our national week of action where we’re making it as easy as possible to get your booster, with pop-up vaccination centres and extended opening hours. February is a critical month to get New Zealand boosted – and we’re encouraging every New Zealander aged 18 and over who had their 2nd vaccination at least 3 months ago to get their booster as soon as possible. You can access a Pfizer booster dose in the same way as any other dose, booking online via www.BookMyVaccine.nz visiting a walk-in or drive-thru vaccination clinic, or by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
981 new community cases 25 new cases identified at the border 39 cases in hospital 17,616 total tests in the last 24 hours 1,912,046 booster doses administered (60%) COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- The Big Boost Week continues to see tens of thousands of people going out to get their booster dose each day. Yesterday, 21,588 boosters doses were administered despite the weather. The vaccine remains our best defence against COVID-19. People who are vaccinated are less likely to get seriously unwell or be hospitalised than people who haven’t been vaccinated. The booster vaccine offers a high level of protection against Omicron, so if it’s been 3 months since you got your second dose, please get your booster as soon as possible. You can access a booster dose in the same way as any other dose, booking online via BookMyVaccine.nz (external link) visiting a walk-in or drive-thru vaccination clinic, or by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). The Ministry of Health would like to thank everyone in New Zealand who has been vaccinated. You are doing your bit for the public health response. Once again, the further increase in new cases today is another reminder that, as expected, the highly transmissible Omicron variant is now spreading in our communities as we have seen in other countries. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
There were 38,332 booster doses administered yesterday, taking the total to date to 1,362,811. Also, 8,636 paediatric doses were given yesterday, bringing the total to 177,964. With Omicron in New Zealand, one of the best things you can do is get your booster as soon as it is due. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick and being hospitalised. Being boosted also helps slow the spread of the virus. If you’re over 18 and your booster is due, please get it now. Evidence to date is that the rate of adverse reactions to a booster dose is similar to people receiving their second dose. --- Section Separator --- 142 new community cases: 11 in Northland 103 in Auckland 12 in Waikato 2 in Lakes 5 in Bay of Plenty 1 in Hawke’s Bay 3 in Taranaki 2 in Nelson Marlborough 3 in Canterbury 54 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,997,561 first doses (95%) 3,913,001 second doses (93%) 37,159 third primary doses 1,053,055 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 509,673 first doses (89%) 481,252 second doses (84%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 275,866 first doses (96%) 267,333 second doses (93%) Paediatric vaccines administered to date (percentage of 5 to 11-year olds): 94,976 first doses (20%) --- Section Separator --- 10 cases in hospital: North Shore: 5 Auckland: 2 Middlemore: 1 Rotorua: 2 --- Section Separator --- 25 new community cases: Northland: 1 Auckland: 18 Bay of Plenty: 2 Lakes: 2 MidCentral: 1 Nelson Marlborough: 1 37 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Omicron update — 25 January 2022
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,998,986 first doses (95%) 3,915,204 second doses (93%) 37,475 third primary doses 1,110,408 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 510,254 first doses (89%) 482,053 second doses (84%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 276,102 first doses (96%) 267,614 second doses (93%) Paediatric vaccines administered to date (percentage of 5 to 11-year olds): 110,123 first doses (23%) --- Section Separator --- 6 cases in hospital: North Shore: 2 Auckland: 1 Middlemore: 1 Rotorua: 2 --- Section Separator --- 23 new community cases: Northland: 1 Auckland: 12 Waikato: 3 Lakes: 5 Capital and Coast: 1 Nelson Marlborough: 1 Of these cases, 15 are Omicron. 36 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Omicron update — 26 January 2022
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 4,035,915 first doses (96%) 3,953,820 second doses (94%) 1,163,046 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 510,804 first doses (89%) 482,856 second doses (85%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 276,351 first doses (96%) 267,949 second doses (93%) Paediatric vaccines administered to date (percentage of 5 to 11-year olds): 124,155 first doses (26%) Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 5-11): 15,639 first doses (14%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 5-11): 8,381 first doses (17%) From today the Ministry of Health has made a change to how it reports vaccination numbers administered to date in this statement. Rather than reporting doses administered,it now reports people vaccinated. For example, under the previous reporting, today’s first dose number would have been 4,000,409. Today the number is 4,035,915. --- Section Separator --- 5 cases in hospital: North Shore: 2 Auckland: 1 Middlemore: 1 Rotorua: 1 --- Section Separator --- 45 new community cases: Auckland: 22 Waikato: 2 Bay of Plenty: 3 Lakes: 7 Taranaki: 1 Hawke's Bay: 8 Nelson Marlborough: 2 51 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Omicron update — 27 January 2022
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 4,037,775 first doses (96%) 3,956,708 second doses (94%) 1,210,768 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 511,325 first doses (90%) 483,809 second doses (85%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 276,590 first doses (96%) 268,268 second doses (94%) Paediatric vaccines administered to date (percentage of 5 to 11-year olds): 137,301 first doses (29%) Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 5-11): 17,632 first doses (15%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 5-11): 9,404 first doses (19%) --- Section Separator --- 4 cases in hospital: North Shore: 2 Middlemore: 1 Rotorua: 1 --- Section Separator --- 105 new community cases: Auckland: 76 Waikato: 5 Tairāwhiti: 1 Bay of Plenty: 9 Lakes: 7 Hawke's Bay: 1 MidCentral: 1 Nelson Marlborough: 2 Canterbury: 3 45 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Omicron update — 28 January 2022
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 4,039,660 first doses (96%) 3,959,574 second doses (94%) 1,257,758 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 511,802 first doses (90%) 484,587 second doses (85%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 276,876 first doses (97%) 268,665 second doses (94%) Paediatric vaccines administered to date (percentage of 5-11-year-olds): 150,207 first doses (32%) Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 5-11): 19,440 first doses (17%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 5-11): 10,458 first doses (21%) --- Section Separator --- 7 cases in hospital: 2 in North Shore 2 in Middlemore 1 in Auckland 2 in Rotorua --- Section Separator --- 97 new new community cases: 1 in Northland 61 in Auckland 14 in Waikato 3 in Tairawhiti 9 in Bay of Plenty 7 in Lakes 3 in Hawke’s Bay 58 new cases identified at the border Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
There were 36,230 booster doses administered yesterday, taking the total to date to 1,399,350. Also, 5,725 paediatric doses were given yesterday, bringing the total to 183,706. With Omicron in New Zealand, one of the best things you can do is get your booster as soon as it is due – and from tomorrow more than 1 million people will be eligible for their booster after the interval was reduced from four to three months. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick and being hospitalised. Being boosted also helps slow the spread of the virus. If you’re over 18 and your booster is due, please get it now. The Waikato region will today reach 90% partial vaccination (first dose) for Māori. As of midnight, Waikato was only 25 first doses off becoming the 11th DHB area to achieve this vaccine milestone. --- Section Separator --- 147 new community cases: 14 in Northland 90 in Auckland 15 in Waikato 9 in Lakes 8 in Bay of Plenty 7 in Hawke’s Bay 4 in Wellington 44 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 4,040,538 first doses (96%) 3,960,959 second doses (94%) 1,287,972 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 512,045 first doses (90%) 484,949 second doses (85%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 277,078 first doses (97%) 268,951 second doses (94%) Paediatric vaccines administered to date (percentage of 5-11-year-olds): Total — 159,296 first doses (33%) Māori — 20,551 first doses (18%) Pacific Peoples — 11,503 first doses (23%) --- Section Separator --- 11 cases in hospital: 1 in North Shore 4 in Middlemore 2 in Auckland 3 in Rotorua 1 in Waikato --- Section Separator --- 103 new community cases: 4 in Northland 56 in Auckland 12 Waikato 1 in Tairāwhiti 14 in Bay of Plenty 8 in Lakes 3 in Hawke’s Bay 1 in MidCentral 1 in Taranaki 2 in Wellington 1 in Nelson Tasman 37 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Public health teams are continuing to manage both Omicron and Delta cases in the community through rapidly isolating cases and contacts, contact tracing, and testing to slow the spread. Whole genome sequencing continues to take place on all new unlinked cases of COVID-19 and provides additional information to aid public health decisions. The Omicron variant of COVID-19 is now the dominant variant, therefore the specific variant of the virus is no longer being reported alongside case numbers. As cases continue to increase, the priority for whole genome sequencing will be to highlight patterns of virus spread rather than individual cases. Wearing a mask, physical distancing and scanning in using the NZ COVID Tracer app when you are out and about will all help slow the spread of Omicron. The most common early symptoms of the Omicron variant are a sore or scratchy throat, and a runny nose. So if you have these symptoms, please get a test, and stay at home until you get a negative result and symptoms are resolved. Find testing and vaccination centre locations nationwide on the Healthpoint website (external link) --- Section Separator --- 91 new community cases: 1 in Northland 65 in Auckland 17 in Waikato 1 in Tairāwhiti 3 in Lakes 1 in Bay of Plenty 2 in Hawke’s Bay 1 in Wellington 39 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Māori across Aotearoa will today reach 90% partial vaccination (first dose). As of 11am this morning, they were just 142 doses away from reaching this important milestone. With Omicron in New Zealand, one of the best things you can do is get your booster as soon as it is due. From today, 1 million people are now eligible for their booster after the interval was reduced from four to three months. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick and being hospitalised. Being boosted also helps slow the spread of the virus. If you’re over 18 and your booster is due, please get it now. --- Section Separator --- 209 new community cases: 21 in Northland 99 in Auckland 51 in Waikato 15 in Lakes 15 in Bay of Plenty 3 in Hawke’s Bay 4 in Tairāwhiti 1 in MidCentral 64 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
243 new community cases 26 new cases identified at the border 10 cases in hospital The continued increase in cases today is a reminder that, as expected, the Omicron variant is spreading in our communities as we have seen in other countries. We can all play our part to slow the spread of the virus, help protect our most vulnerable people from being infected, and ensure our health system is able to manage extra demand for services. This means continuing to do the basics well – staying home if unwell, and wearing a mask, physical distancing and scanning in using the NZ COVID Tracer app when you’re out and about. All masks are effective when worn properly – fitted snug and close to the face – including three-layer fabric and surgical masks. Anyone with any cold or flu symptoms that could be COVID-19 is asked to get a test and isolate at home until a negative result is returned. The most common early symptoms of the Omicron variant are a sore or scratchy throat, and a runny nose. Even if you develop a small sniffle, please get a test. And finally, one of the best steps you can take is getting your booster dose as soon as it is due. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick and being hospitalised. Being boosted also helps slow the spread of the virus. If you’re over 18 and your booster is due, please get it now. --- Section Separator --- Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 4,046,832 first doses (96%) 3,971,743 second doses (94%) 1,511,766 booster doses (49%) Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 514,182 first doses (90%) 488,653 second doses (86%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 278,038 first doses (97%) 270,434 second doses (94%) Paediatric vaccines administered to date (percentage of 5-11-year-olds): Total: 192,661 first doses (40%) Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 5-11): 26,008 first doses (23%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 5-11): 14,859 first doses (30%)
There were 48,947 booster doses administered yesterday, taking the total to date to 1,561,837. Also, 4,807 paediatric doses were given yesterday, bringing the total to 197,471. With Omicron in New Zealand, one of the best things you can do is get your booster as soon as it is due. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick and being hospitalised. Being boosted also helps slow the spread of the virus. If you’re over 18 and your booster is due, please get it now. --- Section Separator --- 208 new community cases: 7 in Northland 128 in Auckland 49 in Waikato 1 in Lakes 11 in Bay of Plenty 5 in Hawke’s Bay 3 in Wellington 3 in Nelson Marlborough 1 in South Canterbury 12 cases in hospital 19 new cases identified at the border --- Section Separator --- Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 4,047,421 first doses (96%) 3,972,866 second doses (94%) 1,561,837 booster doses (50%) Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 514,362 first doses (90%) 489,002 second doses (86%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 278,157 first doses (97%) 270,648 second doses (94%) Paediatric vaccines administered to date (percentage of 5-11-year-olds): Total: 197,471 first doses (41%) Māori: 26,744 (first doses (23%) Pacific Peoples: 15,520 first doses (31%) Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
188 new community cases 27 new cases identified at the border 14 cases in hospital There were 24,935 booster doses administered on Waitangi Day yesterday, taking the total to date to 1,586,950. Also, 1,706 paediatric doses were given yesterday, bringing the total to 199,174. With Omicron in New Zealand, one of the best things you can do is get your booster as soon as it is due. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick and being hospitalised. Being boosted also helps slow the spread of the virus. If you’re over 18 and your booster is due, please get it now. Anyone with any cold or flu symptoms that could be COVID-19 is asked to get a test and isolate at home until a negative result is returned. The most common early symptoms of the Omicron variant are a sore or scratchy throat, and a runny nose. Even if you develop a small sniffle, please get a test. --- Section Separator --- Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 4,047,722 first doses (96%) 3,973,387 second doses (94%) 1,586,950 booster doses (51%) Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 514,469 first doses (90%) 489,188 second doses (86%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 278,199 first doses (97%) 270,727 second doses (94%) Paediatric vaccines administered to date (percentage of 5-11-year-olds): Total: 199,174 first doses (42%) Māori: 27,079 (first doses (23%) Pacific People: 15,738 first doses (32%) Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
202 new community cases 63 new cases identified at the border 14 cases in hospital There were 18,655 booster doses administered yesterday, taking the total to date to 1,605,815. Also, 1,502 paediatric doses were given yesterday, bringing the total to 200,562. With Omicron in New Zealand, one of the best things you can do is get your booster as soon as it is due. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick and being hospitalised. Being boosted also helps slow the spread of the virus. If you’re over 18 and your booster is due, please get it now. Likewise, a successful response to Omicron relies on us finding any infections as early as possible. Anyone with any cold or flu symptoms that could be COVID-19 is asked to get a test and isolate at home until a negative result is returned. The most common early symptoms of the Omicron variant are a sore or scratchy throat, and a runny nose. Even if you develop a small sniffle, please get a test. --- Section Separator --- Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 4,048,018 first doses (96%) 3,973,893 second doses (94%) 1,605,815 booster doses (57%) Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 514,565 first doses (90%) 489,372 second doses (86%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 278,268 first doses (97%) 270,817 second doses (94%) Paediatric vaccines administered to date (percentage of 5-11-year-olds): Total: 200,562 first doses (42%) Māori: 27,395 first doses (24%) Pacific People: 15,969 first doses (32%) Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
204 new community cases 46 new cases identified at the border 16 cases in hospital Today we start a national week of action called ‘The Big Boost’ where we’re making it as easy as possible to get your booster, with pop-up vaccination centres and extended opening hours. A booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides a higher level of protection against severe disease or hospitalisation from the Omicron variant than the two-dose course. Being fully vaccinated with two shots provides great protection against Delta, but boosters are the best way to fight Omicron. If you are 18 years or older and had your second vaccination at least three months ago, get your booster as soon as you can. Find a centre near you by visiting BookMyVaccine.nz or calling the Covid Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 for a whānau booking. All DHBs have now fully vaccinated 90% of their Pacific communities, with Whanganui reaching the milestone yesterday. Advocates, church groups, health providers and countless other entities across the motu have led the way in ensuring that our Pacific populations have some of the highest vaccination rates in the country. Anyone with any cold or flu symptoms that could be COVID-19 is asked to get a test and isolate at home until a negative result is returned. The most common early symptoms of the Omicron variant are a sore or scratchy throat, and a runny nose. Even if you develop a small sniffle, please get a test. --- Section Separator --- Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 4,048,992 first doses (96%) 3,975,822 second doses (94%) 1,666,710 booster doses (53%) Māori (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 514,941 first doses (90%) 490,069 second doses (86%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people aged 12+): 278,404 first doses (97%) 271,043 second doses (95%) Paediatric vaccines administered to date (percentage of 5-11-year-olds): Total: 202,783 first doses (43%) Māori: 27,819 first doses (24%) Pacific People: 16,278 first doses (32%) Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
For the most up-to-date information about our managed isolation and quarantine facilities visit the managed isolation and quarantine website. Get information about: getting a voucher to secure your place charges and exemptions facility locations what managed isolation is like --- Section Separator --- New Zealand is at Alert Level 1. The disease is contained in New Zealand, but uncontrolled overseas. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Controls exist at the borders to address the risk of importing COVID-19, and keep New Zealand safe. All people arriving in New Zealand are required to stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility for at least 14 days and test negative for COVID-19. Other than the border measures there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders. There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. You have a legal right to come home if you are: a New Zealand citizen a New Zealand resident with valid travel conditions. People from any other countries are unable to enter New Zealand at this time, unless they have specific grounds for exemption, such as being essential workers or for medical reasons. These people will need to apply to Immigration New Zealand for an exception to the border closure. Those returning to New Zealand must do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading in New Zealand. All arrivals must complete 14 days of managed isolation or quarantine and test negative for COVID-19 before they can enter the community. People without symptoms will isolate at a managed isolation facility, and those with symptoms or who test positive will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Carrying out managed isolation and quarantine throughout regions across New Zealand is a key part of our border management. All facilities used for isolation or quarantine are closely monitored to make sure all the measures are in place to keep New Zealand safe. New Zealand currently has managed isolation facilities in: Auckland Christchurch Rotorua Wellington Hamilton None of the hotels being used as managed isolation facilities are currently open to domestic travellers or guests — they are exclusive to people who have recently arrived in New Zealand. These facilities are operating safely and are carefully managed with security. The hotels are stand-alone facilities — there are no shared public spaces with other members of the community. In total there are more than 500 government and contracted staff directly supporting managed isolation and quarantine. Each quarantine and managed isolation facility has an All of Government support team. Each team works alongside facility management to support the health, wellbeing, security, supplementary logistics and administration of the people staying in the facility. The teams vary in size depending on facility capacity, and include people from the Ministry of Health, New Zealand Defence Force, Police, Aviation Security, and the Ministry of Social Development. Managed isolation and quarantine facilities meet a strict set of criteria to ensure people staying and working in them are kept safe, and that there’s a safe transition of people back into the community after their isolation period. Hotels are chosen based on demand and suitability. Selection includes an assessment by the national Isolation, Quarantine and Repatriation team, and site visits from our on-the-ground teams in the respective locations. Hotels must meet a range of criteria including security, entry/exit points, suitable room and bathroom facilities, provision of food and drink delivered to rooms, safe laundry protocols, and the ability to ensure the wellbeing of people. People arriving in New Zealand need to complete their at least 14-days stay in a managed isolation or quarantine facility to ensure they can return safely to their family and friends. People will be tested for COVID-19 around days three and 12 of their stay. They must also have a negative test before they are released. Managed isolation facilities are closely monitored to make sure all measures needed to keep the local community safe are in place. None of the facilities have shared spaces with the public or wider community. There is a robust process in place if a potential case is identified in an isolation facility, including isolation of any close or casual contacts. You may see staff on the ground in the community who work at managed isolation facilities. These people are following all public health guidance. People who are in managed isolation cannot leave the hotel until they complete 14 days and return a negative COVID-19 test. For everyone else, it is safe to be out and about in the community as normal. It is safe for all business to operate as normal. It is safe for events and activities to go ahead. Other than the border measures, including managed isolation and quarantine, there are no other restrictions in place for New Zealanders.
Displaying 11-20 of 845 updates 08 Feb 2022 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern provides an update on our response to COVID-19. 08 Feb 2022 The Government has allocated $400,000 to support farmers and growers with contingency planning and response if they get COVID-19. 08 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 07 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 06 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 05 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 04 Feb 2022 The 90% first dose milestone was today achieved by Māori across Aotearoa. 04 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 04 Feb 2022 If you got your second vaccination at least 3 months ago, you can now get boosted. New face mask rules are now in effect. 04 Feb 2022 COVID-19 vaccine Novavax, has been granted provisional approval by Medsafe.
Displaying 21-30 of 845 updates 03 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 03 Feb 2022 The Government’s reconnecting plan will see all New Zealanders and key visa holders able to start to enter the country over the coming three months. 03 Feb 2022 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern provides an update on our border reopening. 02 Feb 2022 A million more New Zealanders over 18 will be eligible for their booster from this Friday, 4 February 2022. 02 Feb 2022 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern provides an update on our response to COVID-19. 02 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 02 Feb 2022 The Government is providing a $1.5 million dollar boost to the Prepare Pacific Community Vaccination Fund. 01 Feb 2022 Deputy Prime Minister Grant Robertson provides an update on our response to COVID-19. 01 Feb 2022 Government secures purchase of 20 million rapid antigen tests from Kudu Spectrum for the Orient Gene RAT to be delivered over February and March. 01 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 31-40 of 845 updates 31 Jan 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 30 Jan 2022 Read the latest Omicron update from the Ministry of Health. 30 Jan 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 29 Jan 2022 Read the latest Omicron update from the Ministry of Health. 29 Jan 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Jan 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Jan 2022 Read the latest Omicron update from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jan 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jan 2022 Read the latest Omicron update from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jan 2022 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern provides an update on our response to COVID-19.
Displaying 41-50 of 846 updates 27 Jan 2022 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern provides an update on our response to COVID-19. 26 Jan 2022 The Government has announced a three phase Omicron plan that aims to slow down and limit the spread of an outbreak. 26 Jan 2022 Minister Ayesha Verrall provides an update on our response to COVID-19. 26 Jan 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Jan 2022 Read the latest Omicron update from the Ministry of Health. 25 Jan 2022 New Zealand’s PCR testing capacity can be increased by nearly 20,000 tests per day to deal with a surge in cases as part of our wider COVID-19 testing strategy. 25 Jan 2022 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern provides an update on our response to COVID-19. 25 Jan 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Jan 2022 Read the latest Omicron update from the Ministry of Health. 25 Jan 2022 As schools are preparing to return, 5,000 air cleaners have been ordered for New Zealand schools.
Displaying 51-60 of 846 updates 24 Jan 2022 Read the latest Omicron update from the Ministry of Health. 24 Jan 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Jan 2022 New Zealand moves to Red at 11:59pm on 23 January, after 9 cases in the Nelson/Marlborough region were confirmed as the Omicron variant. 23 Jan 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Jan 2022 Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern provides an update on New Zealand's traffic light settings and response to the Omicron variant. 22 Jan 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 21 Jan 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 Jan 2022 Northland will move to Orange at 11:59pm tonight, 20 January 2022. New Zealand will remain at Orange to prepare for Omicron. 20 Jan 2022 The Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern will provide an update on New Zealand's traffic light settings and response to the Omicron variant. 20 Jan 2022 The Ministry of Health has confirmed 2 previously reported cases have the Omicron variant of COVID-19.
Displaying 801-810 of 846 updates 24 Aug 2020 Auckland will stay at Alert Level 3 until 11:59pm on 30 August 2020. The rest of the country will remain at Alert Level 2. 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 811-820 of 846 updates 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua.
Displaying 821-830 of 845 updates 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected.
Displaying 831-840 of 845 updates 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm.
Displaying 841-845 of 845 updates 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Home News and data Media conferences Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 media conference — 14 February 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 8 February 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 3 February 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 2 February 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 1 February 2022 --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern provides an update on our response to COVID-19. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. All DHBs have completed a key part of preparations for Omicron with the roll out of boosters to staff and residents in all aged residential care facilities.
Home News and data Report a breach --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic light settings) vaccination or testing requirements for workers managed isolation (MIQ) requirements. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic light settings) vaccination or testing requirements for workers managed isolation (MIQ) requirements. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- Latest news Media conferences Data and statistics Map of COVID-19 vaccination rates in New Zealand Social media and newsletters Report a breach
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 Information about COVID-19, including what it is, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. The COVID-19 variant Omicron is in the community. Here is what this means for you and how we will respond to the outbreak. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. The COVID-19 variant Omicron is in the community. Here is what this means for you and how we will respond to the outbreak.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will tell you whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting. If you are outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Call your doctor or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID on the Ministry of Health website. Long COVID (external link) --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor, or your iwi health provider. A health professional will tell you whether you fit the criteria for testing. Call your doctor before visiting. If you are outside New Zealand call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Call your doctor or Healthline and check if you should get tested. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. Information about testing for COVID-19 If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID on the Ministry of Health website. Long COVID (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19 Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 Our response to Omicron --- Section Separator --- With the number of Omicron cases rising, New Zealand is stepping up its response to the pandemic to slow the spread of the virus and keep our health service and communities protected. We will move into Omicron Phase 2 at 11:59pm, Tuesday 15 February. Phase 1: There are some cases of COVID-19 in the community, but we continue to stamp it out. Phase 2: Cases have spread in the community so we need to minimise and slow transmission to protect our vulnerable communities. Phase 3: There are thousands of cases per day. Most people will be able to look after themselves at home. Health and social services will focus on those that need the most help. Get your booster. If you have children aged 5 to 11, get them vaccinated. Mask, scan, pass everywhere you go. Keep up healthy habits such as washing hands, physical distancing and staying home if you are sick. Get your vaccine booster Vaccination for children and young people Healthy habits There are some cases of COVID-19 in the community, but we continue to stamp it out. Cases have spread in the community, so we need to minimise and slow transmission to protect our vulnerable communities. A rapid increase in case numbers means increased requirements for people to self-manage their situation using online tools. This includes people having to report themselves as cases and Close Contacts. Support will be available for those who do not have access or are not confident using technology. This approach will allow us to focus on managing higher-risk cases and contacts. You should get a PCR test for COVID-19, even if you are vaccinated, if you have: COVID-19 symptoms been identified as a contact been at a location of interest at the relevant time. Where to get tested If you have been tested for COVID-19 for the above reasons, go straight home. You will be notified when the result is available. Test results may take between 2 to 5 days. If you have not got your result after 5 days, contact your doctor or the testing centre where your swab was taken. If you are having trouble getting a test, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor – they may be able to help you get access to a test. Rapid antigen tests (RATs) will mainly be used for critical workers that are Close Contacts to determine if they can return to work as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. If they test positive on a RAT, they will need to follow up with a PCR test. Testing and returning to work during Omicron | business.govt.nz (external link) What happens when you get a PCR test As cases grow, we will use digital technology more. We may communicate using text or email. There will be support for people who do not have access to or are not confident using technology. Cases will: be identified through a positive PCR test be notified by text message and given an online contact tracing form that will focus on high-risk exposures — events or locations need to self-isolate at home for 10 days. Household contacts live with someone who is positive and will also need to immediately self-isolate for 10 days. Household contacts will need to get tests on day 3 and on day 8. If all tests are negative, the whole household can complete isolation at the same time. Close Contacts who are not household contacts will: be notified by text, push notification or Bluetooth alert need to isolate at home for 7 days from the last time they were exposed to someone with COVID-19 need to get tested on day 5 after they were exposed to someone with COVID-19 or if symptoms develop be ‘tested to return’ for critical infrastructure workers, if needed. Some people who are Close Contacts and critical workers will still be able to go to work, if they are asymptomatic and have a negative RAT before going to work. Your employer will let you know if this applies to you. If you test positive, you may be sent a text with an access code and link to an online contact tracing form. You will be asked to share: symptoms details of household Close Contacts high risk locations and Close Contacts NZ COVID Tracer diary and Bluetooth data. The online form takes about 30 minutes to complete. You can start this anytime within 24 hours and continue to add information for 3 days. If you do not start it within 24 hours, someone will call to check in. If you have issues with the online form, you can contact the contact tracing team at the Ministry of Health: Email: help@tracing.min.health.nz Phone: 0800 177 788 If you get COVID-19, you will need to isolate for 10 days. If you are a household contact of someone with COVID-19, you will need to isolate for 10 days with the case and get tested on day 8. If you are a Close Contact, but not a household contact, you will need to isolate for 7 days and get tested on day 5. How to self-isolate There will be extra support in place if a health or critical worker is a contact. If you are away from home, you will need to build potential isolation time into your travel plans. If you test positive away from home People who test positive will be encouraged to use self-service tools where possible to make sure people with the greatest need can get support. A local care co-ordination hub will support people who need ongoing clinical care. People with lower clinical risks can contact external health providers. People who test positive will be supported to isolate in their home, with alternative accommodation available if needed. How to self-isolate Getting extra support There are thousands of cases per day. Most people will be able to look after themselves at home. Health and social services will focus on those who need the most help. --- Section Separator --- With the number of Omicron cases rising, New Zealand is stepping up its response to the pandemic to slow the spread of the virus and keep our health service and communities protected. We will move into Omicron Phase 2 at 11:59pm, Tuesday 15 February. --- Section Separator --- Phase 1: There are some cases of COVID-19 in the community, but we continue to stamp it out. Phase 2: Cases have spread in the community so we need to minimise and slow transmission to protect our vulnerable communities. Phase 3: There are thousands of cases per day. Most people will be able to look after themselves at home. Health and social services will focus on those that need the most help. Get your booster. If you have children aged 5 to 11, get them vaccinated. Mask, scan, pass everywhere you go. Keep up healthy habits such as washing hands, physical distancing and staying home if you are sick. Get your vaccine booster Vaccination for children and young people Healthy habits --- Section Separator --- There are some cases of COVID-19 in the community, but we continue to stamp it out. --- Section Separator --- Cases have spread in the community, so we need to minimise and slow transmission to protect our vulnerable communities. A rapid increase in case numbers means increased requirements for people to self-manage their situation using online tools. This includes people having to report themselves as cases and Close Contacts. Support will be available for those who do not have access or are not confident using technology. This approach will allow us to focus on managing higher-risk cases and contacts. You should get a PCR test for COVID-19, even if you are vaccinated, if you have: COVID-19 symptoms been identified as a contact been at a location of interest at the relevant time. Where to get tested If you have been tested for COVID-19 for the above reasons, go straight home. You will be notified when the result is available. Test results may take between 2 to 5 days. If you have not got your result after 5 days, contact your doctor or the testing centre where your swab was taken. If you are having trouble getting a test, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor – they may be able to help you get access to a test. Rapid antigen tests (RATs) will mainly be used for critical workers that are Close Contacts to determine if they can return to work as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. If they test positive on a RAT, they will need to follow up with a PCR test. Testing and returning to work during Omicron | business.govt.nz (external link) What happens when you get a PCR test As cases grow, we will use digital technology more. We may communicate using text or email. There will be support for people who do not have access to or are not confident using technology. Cases will: be identified through a positive PCR test be notified by text message and given an online contact tracing form that will focus on high-risk exposures — events or locations need to self-isolate at home for 10 days. Household contacts live with someone who is positive and will also need to immediately self-isolate for 10 days. Household contacts will need to get tests on day 3 and on day 8. If all tests are negative, the whole household can complete isolation at the same time. Close Contacts who are not household contacts will: be notified by text, push notification or Bluetooth alert need to isolate at home for 7 days from the last time they were exposed to someone with COVID-19 need to get tested on day 5 after they were exposed to someone with COVID-19 or if symptoms develop be ‘tested to return’ for critical infrastructure workers, if needed. Some people who are Close Contacts and critical workers will still be able to go to work, if they are asymptomatic and have a negative RAT before going to work. Your employer will let you know if this applies to you. If you test positive, you may be sent a text with an access code and link to an online contact tracing form. You will be asked to share: symptoms details of household Close Contacts high risk locations and Close Contacts NZ COVID Tracer diary and Bluetooth data. The online form takes about 30 minutes to complete. You can start this anytime within 24 hours and continue to add information for 3 days. If you do not start it within 24 hours, someone will call to check in. If you have issues with the online form, you can contact the contact tracing team at the Ministry of Health: Email: help@tracing.min.health.nz Phone: 0800 177 788 If you get COVID-19, you will need to isolate for 10 days. If you are a household contact of someone with COVID-19, you will need to isolate for 10 days with the case and get tested on day 8. If you are a Close Contact, but not a household contact, you will need to isolate for 7 days and get tested on day 5. How to self-isolate There will be extra support in place if a health or critical worker is a contact. If you are away from home, you will need to build potential isolation time into your travel plans. If you test positive away from home People who test positive will be encouraged to use self-service tools where possible to make sure people with the greatest need can get support. A local care co-ordination hub will support people who need ongoing clinical care. People with lower clinical risks can contact external health providers. People who test positive will be supported to isolate in their home, with alternative accommodation available if needed. How to self-isolate Getting extra support --- Section Separator --- There are thousands of cases per day. Most people will be able to look after themselves at home. Health and social services will focus on those who need the most help. --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19 Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. When you leave the house, you should maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices at all traffic light settings. You can work with your doctor or specialist if you need help understanding your level of risk and how best to stay healthy. Getting your vaccination is an important step you can take to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Vaccines help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and reduce your chances of getting seriously ill or dying if you do get COVID-19. Even if you are vaccinated, you should still take precautions, including limiting interactions with others, wearing a face covering in public, and staying home where possible. Get your COVID-19 vaccination If you have any concerns about how you will react to the vaccine talk to your doctor. Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher hypertension that is not well controlled diabetes that is not well controlled chronic kidney disease liver disease. Many conditions and treatments can weaken a person's immune system, including: having chemotherapy or radiotherapy bone marrow or organ transplantation some blood cancers immune deficiencies including HIV infection immunity weakening medications such as high-dose corticosteroids and disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, especially those who have underlying medical conditions, are more at risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Anyone can call Age Concern New Zealand on 0800 65 2105 to get advice and support. International evidence has shown that aged care facilities are prone to the quick spread of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more at risk of illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying medical conditions. International research has shown COVID-19 has a larger impact on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19, especially when there is: a higher rate of chronic medical conditions crowded housing difficulty accessing health care. People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your doctor or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking | health.govt.nz (external link) We recommend people who are pregnant take extra precautions, as evidence shows they may be at greater risk of poor outcomes. If you are pregnant and work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can: discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working agree on leave from work and pay arrangements with your employer, if you cannot work safely at your workplace or from home. These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. Parental leave | employment.govt.nz (external link) Find more information about maternity care on the Ministry of Health website. Pregnant people and those who have recently given birth | health.govt.nz (external link) In the traffic light settings there is freedom to move around, but it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. You should keep up healthy habits and keep away from people you do not know. Try not to interact with too many people outside of your own social circle as it could make contact tracing harder, if needed. Keep your distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. We recommend you wear a face mask whenever you are leaving your home, especially if it is difficult to keep your distance from others. You must wear a face mask at some places. You can ask people to drop off supplies at your door. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. Talk to your doctor if you have any concerns. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about a risk assessment in your workplace. It will look at what the risk is for you and how to reduce it. Healthy habits The Student Volunteer Army Grocery Delivery Service is available nationwide to people who are self-isolating or who have no other way to access food. To order: visit shop.sva.org.nz (external link) call 09 801 2122 if you are in Auckland call 0800 005 902 for the rest of New Zealand. Access to basic needs at Red Access to basic needs at Orange Access to basic needs at Green --- Section Separator --- People are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if they are older or have an underlying medical condition. When you leave the house, you should maintain physical distance and good hygiene practices at all traffic light settings. You can work with your doctor or specialist if you need help understanding your level of risk and how best to stay healthy. Getting your vaccination is an important step you can take to protect yourself and others from COVID-19. Vaccines help prevent the spread of COVID-19 and reduce your chances of getting seriously ill or dying if you do get COVID-19. Even if you are vaccinated, you should still take precautions, including limiting interactions with others, wearing a face covering in public, and staying home where possible. Get your COVID-19 vaccination If you have any concerns about how you will react to the vaccine talk to your doctor. --- Section Separator --- Underlying medical conditions include: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma serious heart conditions immunocompromised conditions severe obesity — a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher hypertension that is not well controlled diabetes that is not well controlled chronic kidney disease liver disease. Many conditions and treatments can weaken a person's immune system, including: having chemotherapy or radiotherapy bone marrow or organ transplantation some blood cancers immune deficiencies including HIV infection immunity weakening medications such as high-dose corticosteroids and disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. Older people, especially those who have underlying medical conditions, are more at risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Anyone can call Age Concern New Zealand on 0800 65 2105 to get advice and support. International evidence has shown that aged care facilities are prone to the quick spread of viruses like COVID-19. Residents are more at risk of illnesses due to their age and they are also more likely to have underlying medical conditions. International research has shown COVID-19 has a larger impact on ethnic minorities. Māori, Pacific and some other ethnic minorities in New Zealand are at risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19, especially when there is: a higher rate of chronic medical conditions crowded housing difficulty accessing health care. People with a history of smoking are more likely to have severe symptoms of COVID-19 and be admitted to intensive care. There are options available to help you stop smoking. You can discuss these with your doctor or contact Quitline on 0800 778 778 . How to stop smoking | health.govt.nz (external link) We recommend people who are pregnant take extra precautions, as evidence shows they may be at greater risk of poor outcomes. If you are pregnant and work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can: discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working agree on leave from work and pay arrangements with your employer, if you cannot work safely at your workplace or from home. These leave arrangements may be important to ensure you remain eligible for paid parental leave. Parental leave | employment.govt.nz (external link) Find more information about maternity care on the Ministry of Health website. Pregnant people and those who have recently given birth | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- In the traffic light settings there is freedom to move around, but it is best to stay vigilant when out and about. You should keep up healthy habits and keep away from people you do not know. Try not to interact with too many people outside of your own social circle as it could make contact tracing harder, if needed. Keep your distance from people you do not know in public places and take extra care with hygiene practices. We recommend you wear a face mask whenever you are leaving your home, especially if it is difficult to keep your distance from others. You must wear a face mask at some places. You can ask people to drop off supplies at your door. Wash your hands frequently and avoid touching surfaces. Wipe keys, handrails, and regularly touched surfaces. Avoid passing around your mobile phone to other people. Talk to your doctor if you have any concerns. If you are working and considered at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk with your employer about a risk assessment in your workplace. It will look at what the risk is for you and how to reduce it. Healthy habits The Student Volunteer Army Grocery Delivery Service is available nationwide to people who are self-isolating or who have no other way to access food. To order: visit shop.sva.org.nz (external link) call 09 801 2122 if you are in Auckland call 0800 005 902 for the rest of New Zealand. Access to basic needs at Red Access to basic needs at Orange Access to basic needs at Green --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19 Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 What is COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current variants of concern are: Alpha — first found in the United Kingdom Beta — first found in South Africa Gamma — first found in Brazil Delta — first found in India Omicron — first found in South Africa. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) Omicron was first classified as a variant of concern by WHO in November 2021. It has spread worldwide and is now the major variant in many countries. It is more transmissible than previous variants of the virus, including Delta. However, as Omicron is so new, more data is needed to understand how it has spread so quickly. We have a very effective system in place for identifying new variants in New Zealand. The possibility of new variants like Omicron is why we continue to perform whole-genome sequencing on cases from overseas and those not linked to a community cluster. COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Although Omicron is a new variant, we have already learned a lot from experiences overseas. Reports suggest that, compared to Delta, Omicron: is more transmissible may cause similar symptoms, but because we have a highly vaccinated population, many people may not have any symptoms, though could still pass the virus on to others does not result in as many people being hospitalised, however because of the high number of people with Omicron, hospitalisations have risen steadily can still cause severe illness and even death, especially in people who have underlying health conditions. COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 COVID-19 causes 2 major issues that cause harm when someone is infected — a viral attack on the body and in some cases an immune reaction. Studies for new treatments cover both issues and concentrate on 3 areas. Antiviral drugs limiting the ability of the virus to thrive in the body. Medicines that calm the immune system over-reaction prompted in some patients. Antibody treatments that help the body fight the virus. The Ministry of Health has updates on pharmaceutical treatments for COVID-19. COVID-19 Science Updates | health.govt.nz (external link) Pharmac is funding appropriate COVID-19 treatments for New Zealanders. The agency decides which medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand. Pharmac has secured treatments for COVID-19, including: Tocilizumab Remdesivir Molnupiravir Ronapreve Baricitinib. Medsafe will assess these medicines before treatment for COVID-19. Find more information on Pharmac's website: Pharmac is funding COVID-19 treatments (external link) Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy with the COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic lights) is for New Zealanders to connect with friends and whānau, while also protecting everyone from serious illness. We do this through: testing anyone with symptoms hygiene measures such as washing our hands and wearing a face mask testing and tracing all potential contacts isolating cases and their contacts. Traffic lights High rates of vaccination is New Zealand’s key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19, and central to the settings in the framework. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: symptomatic people in the community asymptomatic testing of workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | esr.cri.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. --- Section Separator --- It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current variants of concern are: Alpha — first found in the United Kingdom Beta — first found in South Africa Gamma — first found in Brazil Delta — first found in India Omicron — first found in South Africa. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) Omicron was first classified as a variant of concern by WHO in November 2021. It has spread worldwide and is now the major variant in many countries. It is more transmissible than previous variants of the virus, including Delta. However, as Omicron is so new, more data is needed to understand how it has spread so quickly. We have a very effective system in place for identifying new variants in New Zealand. The possibility of new variants like Omicron is why we continue to perform whole-genome sequencing on cases from overseas and those not linked to a community cluster. COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Although Omicron is a new variant, we have already learned a lot from experiences overseas. Reports suggest that, compared to Delta, Omicron: is more transmissible may cause similar symptoms, but because we have a highly vaccinated population, many people may not have any symptoms, though could still pass the virus on to others does not result in as many people being hospitalised, however because of the high number of people with Omicron, hospitalisations have risen steadily can still cause severe illness and even death, especially in people who have underlying health conditions. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 causes 2 major issues that cause harm when someone is infected — a viral attack on the body and in some cases an immune reaction. Studies for new treatments cover both issues and concentrate on 3 areas. Antiviral drugs limiting the ability of the virus to thrive in the body. Medicines that calm the immune system over-reaction prompted in some patients. Antibody treatments that help the body fight the virus. The Ministry of Health has updates on pharmaceutical treatments for COVID-19. COVID-19 Science Updates | health.govt.nz (external link) Pharmac is funding appropriate COVID-19 treatments for New Zealanders. The agency decides which medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand. Pharmac has secured treatments for COVID-19, including: Tocilizumab Remdesivir Molnupiravir Ronapreve Baricitinib. Medsafe will assess these medicines before treatment for COVID-19. Find more information on Pharmac's website: Pharmac is funding COVID-19 treatments (external link) --- Section Separator --- Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy with the COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic lights) is for New Zealanders to connect with friends and whānau, while also protecting everyone from serious illness. We do this through: testing anyone with symptoms hygiene measures such as washing our hands and wearing a face mask testing and tracing all potential contacts isolating cases and their contacts. Traffic lights High rates of vaccination is New Zealand’s key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19, and central to the settings in the framework. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: symptomatic people in the community asymptomatic testing of workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | esr.cri.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19 Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe Be prepared for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- It is only a matter of time before a positive case of COVID-19 is in your community. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness, and will fully recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Omicron spreads fast — everyone in your house may catch the virus. Being ready for getting COVID-19 is about making sure you and your household have a plan and know what to do. It will mean your whānau and community can help each other if needed. Download COVID-19: Our isolation plan [PDF, 195 KB] You need to work out what you will do if someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, because your entire household will need to stay home. Organise with friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs of food and supplies. Services like The Student Volunteer Army might be able to help with drop-offs, and Work and Income may be able to help with costs. Are there people in your household who might need extra care or support? Talk to any in-home carers you have and agree in advance about what will happen if you need to isolate. Make plans if you have shared custody of a child or dependant. Help and support if you have COVID-19 Prepare to work or learn from home. Talk to your employer, your child’s school, and community groups to find out what their plans are. Do they need anything from you? Will they be able to support you to work from home, or your children to learn at home? Write down any household instructions someone else could easily follow if you get sick and have to go into managed isolation or hospital. Cover things like feeding pets, paying bills and watering plants. Think about how you could set up your home to minimise COVID-19 spreading. Draw a map of your home and mark out your zones, for example shared areas, isolation areas, and a sanitising station. Could ventilation be improved? Even opening windows will help to get rid of the virus. Practice healthy habits like coughing and sneezing into your elbow, and washing hands to reduce the spread of germs. Work out what you will need to help yourself and those around you. Make a list of whānau information — include everyone's names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medication they normally take or medical supplies each person will need. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, afterhours, and any support agencies. Find activities to pass the time. What might help stop boredom if you are isolating at home? Put together a hygiene kit: tissues soap sanitiser masks cleaning products and gloves rubbish bags (try to have separate bags for tissues before putting them in your main rubbish bags). Have items to help with symptoms: ibuprofen and/or paracetamol drinks and other medications that help with cold and flu-like symptoms, like lemon tea with honey, and cough syrup nasal spray, throat lozenges, vapour rubs. Kōrero together — make sure everyone in your household, including children, knows what will happen when you need to isolate. Share plans with those supporting and helping you (or who you are supporting). Share your plan with wider whānau, neighbours and regular manuhiri/visitors and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. Work out how to let people know your household is isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence and having a QR code poster so people can keep track of where they have been. If people are helping with contactless drop-offs, do you want them to text or message before they arrive? Beep the car horn from the gate? Use an agreed entrance? We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Get your QR code poster for at home (external link) We are all in this together and we will get through together. Stay connected — arrange regular catch-ups with your whānau, friends and community. If you are isolating, make sure these are online or by phone. Support your friends, whānau and workmates to make their own plans to get ready. Find out what your community is doing — is there a group making meals to freeze, sharing planning tips or just staying in the know? If you are a business owner or manager, start thinking about what steps you can take to protect your staff and customers, if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan for your business. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) Find contact and support services Help and support if you test positive for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 What to expect when self-isolating at home What to expect if you go into managed isolation --- Section Separator --- It is only a matter of time before a positive case of COVID-19 is in your community. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness, and will fully recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Omicron spreads fast — everyone in your house may catch the virus. Being ready for getting COVID-19 is about making sure you and your household have a plan and know what to do. It will mean your whānau and community can help each other if needed. Download COVID-19: Our isolation plan [PDF, 195 KB] --- Section Separator --- You need to work out what you will do if someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, because your entire household will need to stay home. Organise with friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs of food and supplies. Services like The Student Volunteer Army might be able to help with drop-offs, and Work and Income may be able to help with costs. Are there people in your household who might need extra care or support? Talk to any in-home carers you have and agree in advance about what will happen if you need to isolate. Make plans if you have shared custody of a child or dependant. Help and support if you have COVID-19 Prepare to work or learn from home. Talk to your employer, your child’s school, and community groups to find out what their plans are. Do they need anything from you? Will they be able to support you to work from home, or your children to learn at home? Write down any household instructions someone else could easily follow if you get sick and have to go into managed isolation or hospital. Cover things like feeding pets, paying bills and watering plants. Think about how you could set up your home to minimise COVID-19 spreading. Draw a map of your home and mark out your zones, for example shared areas, isolation areas, and a sanitising station. Could ventilation be improved? Even opening windows will help to get rid of the virus. Practice healthy habits like coughing and sneezing into your elbow, and washing hands to reduce the spread of germs. --- Section Separator --- Work out what you will need to help yourself and those around you. Make a list of whānau information — include everyone's names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medication they normally take or medical supplies each person will need. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, afterhours, and any support agencies. Find activities to pass the time. What might help stop boredom if you are isolating at home? Put together a hygiene kit: tissues soap sanitiser masks cleaning products and gloves rubbish bags (try to have separate bags for tissues before putting them in your main rubbish bags). Have items to help with symptoms: ibuprofen and/or paracetamol drinks and other medications that help with cold and flu-like symptoms, like lemon tea with honey, and cough syrup nasal spray, throat lozenges, vapour rubs. --- Section Separator --- Kōrero together — make sure everyone in your household, including children, knows what will happen when you need to isolate. Share plans with those supporting and helping you (or who you are supporting). Share your plan with wider whānau, neighbours and regular manuhiri/visitors and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. Work out how to let people know your household is isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence and having a QR code poster so people can keep track of where they have been. If people are helping with contactless drop-offs, do you want them to text or message before they arrive? Beep the car horn from the gate? Use an agreed entrance? We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Get your QR code poster for at home (external link) --- Section Separator --- We are all in this together and we will get through together. Stay connected — arrange regular catch-ups with your whānau, friends and community. If you are isolating, make sure these are online or by phone. Support your friends, whānau and workmates to make their own plans to get ready. Find out what your community is doing — is there a group making meals to freeze, sharing planning tips or just staying in the know? --- Section Separator --- If you are a business owner or manager, start thinking about what steps you can take to protect your staff and customers, if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan for your business. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find contact and support services Help and support if you test positive for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 What to expect when self-isolating at home What to expect if you go into managed isolation --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Be prepared for COVID-19 Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities In an emergency
Home Prepare and stay safe In an emergency --- Section Separator --- Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face mask. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly. Maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance and wear a face mask, if possible. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link) If you are isolating at home because of a public health order, you need to be prepared if there is a natural disaster. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. Include face masks and other supplies, for example hand sanitiser, in your emergency grab bag. Move to a safe location and stay there until you get more advice. Immediate safety​ overrides COVID-19 isolation requirements. As soon as you and your whānau are safe, try to maintain physical distancing wherever possible. Keep a record of where you have been and who you have been with while you have been moving to safety — health professionals will need this information if there is an identified case of COVID-19. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face mask. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. --- Section Separator --- If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly. Maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance and wear a face mask, if possible. --- Section Separator --- If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are isolating at home because of a public health order, you need to be prepared if there is a natural disaster. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. Include face masks and other supplies, for example hand sanitiser, in your emergency grab bag. Move to a safe location and stay there until you get more advice. Immediate safety​ overrides COVID-19 isolation requirements. As soon as you and your whānau are safe, try to maintain physical distancing wherever possible. Keep a record of where you have been and who you have been with while you have been moving to safety — health professionals will need this information if there is an identified case of COVID-19. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Be prepared for COVID-19 Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities In an emergency
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities The COVID downlow Basics of COVID-19 Do these easy things to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19, so that we all get back to doing the things we love. --- Section Separator --- There are easy steps we can all take to help keep us healthy, like getting vaccinated, wearing a face mask and scanning when we go places. It helps to understand why we're all doing this: to protect ourselves and everyone around us.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities The COVID downlow Education Different traffic light settings mean different things for schools, universities and other training places. --- Section Separator --- You might need to study at home if you are self-isolating, waiting for a COVID-19 test result, or do not have a My Vaccine Pass. Being at home can make it hard to focus on school work, especially when everyone else is at home too. Studying can be stressful, but there are techniques you can use to cope. The Lowdown has advice. Study stress | The Lowdown (external link) You can get help and tips about preparing for NCEA Maths, Sciences and English exams at StudyIt. You can post an NCEA exam question on its discussion forum and a teacher/facilitator will respond. StudyIt | studyit.govt.nz (external link) Auckland University has tips for studying at home, including staying active, keeping in touch with friends, and making to-do lists. Tips for studying at home | Auckland University (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for disabled people This section contains information about COVID-19 and vaccination for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. Children and young people with disabilities can get vaccinated at some accessible sites with their whānau. Learn more about vaccinations for children Find an accessible vaccination centre near you Where to get your tamariki vaccinated If you are aged 18 and over, and it has been 3 months since your last dose, you can book your booster online now through Book My Vaccine (external link) . Learn more about booster doses --- Section Separator --- Getting a COVID-19 vaccine protects you, your whānau and your community. The vaccine teaches your body how to fight the virus. It will protect you from getting very sick if you do get COVID-19. It protects your whānau and friends because you are less likely to pass COVID-19 on to people around you. --- Section Separator --- If you are worried about getting the vaccine, you can talk to a trained advisor in the Healthline disability team. The team is made up of people who have experience of a disability themselves, or who have worked with the disabled community. They will support you, your whānau or someone you care for and answer any questions you may have about: accessibility arrangements and getting mobility assistance at different vaccination centres getting your vaccination safely home vaccinations any effects the vaccine may have on you or your medications. The disability team is available Monday to Friday, from 8am to 8pm. Call: 0800 28 29 26 and push 2 Free text: 8988 Email: accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. You may need to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter venues like cafes, bars and gyms and go to events. There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass: online using My Covid Record (external link) calling 0800 222 478 — 8am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. in person at a vaccination site like a pharmacy. If you need help, call 0800 28 29 26 and press 2 to speak to the disability team. Once you get your pass, save it on your phone, or print it out and keep it in a safe place. Remember to take your My Vaccine Pass with you wherever you go. How to get your My Vaccine Pass Information about My Vaccine Pass — Easy Read [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass — Easy Read [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about My Covid Record — Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record — Easy Read [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- If you have decided you want to get the vaccine, it is easy to get vaccinated. You can get your vaccination at: an accessible site your doctor or local pharmacy any other vaccination centre near you. You can also talk to, text or email a trained advisor to discuss whether a home vaccination is right for you. Some vaccination centres are fully accessible. Your family, whānau and support workers are also welcome to get their vaccinations with you. Fully accessible vaccination centres Map of vaccination centres around Aotearoa New Zealand | karawhiua.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can book your vaccination by: calling the COVID Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and pushing '2' to speak to the disability team. The COVID Healthline is open from 8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday. using the free text option on 8988 . emailing accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz using Book My Vaccine (external link) . The website is accessible and can be used with a screen reader. The disability team can also help you book an appointment for your tamariki at an accessible site. --- Section Separator --- You can take a support person with you when you get your vaccination. This can be a carer, or someone else you trust. When you get to the vaccination site, you will need to sign in. If you need an NZSL interpreter or information in an accessible format, please ask. When it is your time to get vaccinated, the staff will ask you whether it is okay to give you the vaccine. If you say yes, this is called consent. If you cannot give consent, someone who is allowed to make decisions for you can give consent for you. The vaccinator may also ask you questions about how you are feeling, and what medication you take. It is normal to feel scared or worried. Ask the vaccinator if you have any questions. You will need to wait for 15 minutes after your vaccination. If this is hard for you, ask if you can wait somewhere else. --- Section Separator --- Why it's important for disabled tamariki to get the COVID-19 vaccine Our vaccination journey — Victoria and Arlo My vaccination journey — Nick My vaccination journey — Cyrus What to expect if you have a needle phobia 3 simple ways to book your vaccine --- Section Separator --- You can choose to get the vaccine. You can say yes or no or ask for help making your decision. For disabled people or people with an impairment, the journey to get vaccinated may look a little different. We have created the Manaakitanga Journey online tool to help support disabled people to get vaccinated. The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [DOCX, 66 KB] The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [PDF, 539 KB] The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [PNG, 1 MB] Toolkit for organisations working with disabled people [PDF, 2.7 MB] Read our answers to some of the most commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine Read vaccine advice if you have a health condition Use the decision making tool to help. You can fill in the tool yourself and take it with you to your vaccination appointment. Make a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) Talk to your whānau or a trusted support person. Talk to your doctor. Your doctor is the health professional who knows you best. You might want to ask your doctor questions about the COVID-19 vaccine — for example how the vaccine may affect any health problems you have, or if there are any risks for you. If you are supporting someone with a disability to make a decision about getting the COVID-19 vaccine, you can use one of the supported decision making tools. Choose the guidance tool or combination of tools that best suits the person you are supporting. Tools for supporting disabled people to make a decision about the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- You now need to wear a face mask in most indoor places. This includes at schools and kura for tamariki (children) who are in Year 4 and up. Where you need to wear a face mask We know that for many disabled people, wearing a face mask is unsuitable and you are exempt. Businesses may check if you are exempt from wearing a face mask — but they should be kind and considerate towards you. If you are having trouble communicating with someone who is wearing a face mask, you can ask them to remove it during your conversation. Who does not need to wear a face mask Schools should support parents of disabled tamariki if their child needs an exemption from wearing a face mask. Mask advice | education.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- It is okay to be worried about COVID-19. If you feel like this, it is important to look after your mental health. Talking to someone can help your mental health. You can talk to someone that you trust like a friend, family member, carer, support worker or a doctor. Look after yourself by eating healthy food, getting a good night's sleep, or going out for exercise. Stay connected with your whānau and friends. You can also keep in touch with them by phone, through social media or video calls. There are websites you can visit and phone lines you can call if you need help. Check our the free services and resources available to you If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to get financial assistance. Financial support for individuals and whānau It is important that you continue to access the disability services you need. Talk to your care provider to find out if there any changes to how you access any services because of traffic light settings. --- Section Separator --- Find information about COVID-19 in alternate formats: New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for Pacific Peoples Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. Information in Pacific languages: Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu --- Section Separator --- 0800 Ola Lelei – 0800 652 535 Check out the range of free services and resources available to you --- Section Separator --- It's time to dial up the talanoa, helping our youth to navigate COVID-19 conversations with their parents, family and peers. Let's Talanoa with Dr Lesina Nakhid-Schuster and Rokalani Lavea. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry for Pacific Peoples has created an educational video about the Pfizer vaccine that is also available in 9 Pacific languages. --- Section Separator --- When you get vaccinated, you are not just protecting yourself but also your aiga, friends, churches and community. The vaccine is free and available to everyone aged 12 and over. It will help to protect Aotearoa from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Get your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Make sure you get the latest news and updates from reliable sources. Ministry for Pacific Peoples website (external link) Ministry for Pacific Peoples Facebook page (external link) Pacific Media Network (external link) Tagata Pasifika (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani Vosa Vakaviti Te taetae ni Kiribati Vagahau Niue Fäeag Rotųam Gagana Samoa Te Gagana Tokelau Lea Faka Tonga Te Gana Tuvalu
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in the community. To slow the spread and continue to protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask when out and about. Depending on the traffic light setting, there are some places you must wear one. Scan everywhere you go or keep a record manually. This is especially important on holiday because you may not remember all the locations you visited or who you saw. Have My Vaccine Pass ready for places that require proof of vaccination to enter, like cafes, bars, gyms and hairdressers. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask when out and about. Depending on the traffic light setting, there are some places you must wear one. Scan everywhere you go or keep a record manually. This is especially important on holiday because you may not remember all the locations you visited or who you saw. Have My Vaccine Pass ready for places that require proof of vaccination to enter, like cafes, bars, gyms and hairdressers. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you should get a test. You must stay home until you get a negative result. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you are helping to keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. COVID-19 symptoms Get tested for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. You should wash your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth, if your hands are not clean. Using hand sanitiser is also effective at killing germs and viruses. It destroys the protective bubble of the virus, but only if the sanitiser has at least 60% alcohol. Sanitiser is also effective in reducing the number and type of germs on your hands. --- Section Separator --- Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash your hands thoroughly. This will catch the droplets and keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. --- Section Separator --- Clean surfaces regularly. This includes frequently touched items like door handles, light switches and phones. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- The risk of becoming infected with COVID-19 increases the closer you are to a person and the longer you are close to that person. The risk is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. The risk is lower outside when there are fewer people, and when you are further away from others. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. If air conditioning is used, make sure the system is regularly maintained. Find out more about reducing the risk of COVID-19 through ventilation | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are not required to maintain physical distance from others in the traffic light system. But it is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it is in the community. --- Section Separator --- You can keep yourself and those around you safe after you leave managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) by keeping up healthy habits. This is especially important for the 7 days after you leave MIQ. Keep up healthy habits after you leave MIQ (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Keep track of where you have been NZ COVID Tracer booklet --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] A simplified version is available for disabled communities: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, simplified [PDF, 2.6 MB] Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you are ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you want a booklet and cannot print your own. If you are an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- If you use the booklet, we recommend you still sign contact tracing registers when you visit places like shops. --- Section Separator --- Print whichever booklet you like most. You may need to adjust your printer settings to print as many of the blank pages as you want. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] A simplified version is available for disabled communities: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, simplified [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Each booklet has 30 pages, so will last around 1 month. If you are ordering multiple booklets, they come in a pack of 10. The booklets are available in English, te reo Māori and 22 other languages. Fill in the online form if you want a booklet and cannot print your own. If you are an organisation with a wide reach to New Zealanders who may need this booklet, you can order copies to distribute to your communities. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) If you cannot use the online form, please order your booklets by emailing Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz Make sure you include your postal address and who to direct the booklets to. --- Section Separator --- Keep your booklet with you so you can record your movements whenever you leave your house. The booklet can fit in your pocket, handbag or backpack. Write in the booklet where you have been, what time you were there, how you got there and who you met there — if you met someone you know. Use your booklet when you come into contact with other people, like in a shop, or when you cannot keep 2 metres away from others. --- Section Separator --- Order free Unite against COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz . --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask Keep track of where you have been NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet NZ COVID Tracer app NZ COVID Tracer booklet Stay safe this summer
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Stay safe this summer When you are out and about, remember to wear a mask, scan in, and have My Vaccine Pass ready so that we can make summer unstoppable. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask when out and about. Depending on the traffic light setting, there are some places you must wear one. Scan everywhere you go or keep a record manually. This is especially important on holiday because you may not remember all the locations you visited or who you saw. Have My Vaccine Pass ready for places that require proof of vaccination to enter, like cafes, bars, gyms and hairdressers. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask when out and about. Depending on the traffic light setting, there are some places you must wear one. Scan everywhere you go or keep a record manually. This is especially important on holiday because you may not remember all the locations you visited or who you saw. Have My Vaccine Pass ready for places that require proof of vaccination to enter, like cafes, bars, gyms and hairdressers. --- Section Separator --- As Kiwis travel around the country this summer we may see an increase in COVID-19 in our communities. Some people may get COVID-19, even if vaccinated and following the rules. Vaccinated people are less likely to develop serious illness and less likely to be hospitalised. If you are heading away over summer, it is important you and your whānau have a plan for what you will do if anyone tests positive for COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Testing services will be available throughout the Christmas, New Year and the holiday period. If you need to get a test, call Healthline or check Healthpoint for details of the nearest testing service, including opening hours. 0800 358 5453 healthpoint.co.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are hosting or inviting people into your home here are some tips to keep everyone safe. Encourage guests to wash and dry their hands or to sanitise their hands when they arrive, and practice good hygiene. If possible, have some hand sanitiser available for everyone to use. Consider having windows or doors open to provide ventilation. If the weather is suitable, you could host your event outdoors. Try to avoid shared utensils and limit the number of people preparing, handling and serving food. Keep a note of all the people who visit you at home, or at your holiday destination. You can create your own QR code and encourage those who visit to scan in with the NZ COVID Tracer app. Get a NZ COVID Tracer poster (external link) Follow the advice for holding gatherings at Red and Orange: Gatherings at Red Gatherings at Orange --- Section Separator --- If you are unwell or have been exposed to a COVID-19 case, contact Healthline for advice and to arrange a test immediately. It might be tempting to continue with your Christmas plans, but you play an important role in protecting others from becoming unwell, including from COVID-19, by limiting their exposure to anyone who is sick. While you are unwell or waiting for a negative test result: stay at home do not travel do not take part in events, activities, or socialising do not invite people over or host events. Phone Healthline: 0800 358 5453 --- Section Separator --- Look after yourself and your whānau this festive season and summer holidays. Take any opportunity to rest and enjoy a break. We all need a bit of support from time to time, and if you or someone you know is struggling, there is free help available. Mental wellbeing support (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can, and there are some places where you must wear one. --- Section Separator --- As a general rule, you should wear a face mask whenever you are indoors. The exceptions are at your home or your place of work if it is not public facing. Your employer may encourage you to wear a face mask even if your job is not public facing. When it is hard to physically distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face mask. Everyone must wear a mask that is attached to the face by loops around the ears or head. This means people can no longer use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts as face coverings. Types of face masks You do not need to wear a mask when exercising. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport, this includes Cook Strait Ferries but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services at arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport if you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above on public transport and Ministry of Education funded school transport in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public venues or facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic in an indoor setting at schools, for example classrooms and assemblies. This includes visitors, workers, and students and teachers in Years 4 to 13 inside at tertiary education facilities when visiting a licensed early childhood service at food and drink businesses, for example cafes, bars and restaurants. You can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink at close-proximity businesses, for example hairdressers, barbers, beauty salons when you are at a gathering, except when you have exclusive use of the venue or defined space in the public areas within courts, tribunals, local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a health care service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport and at arrival and departure points, this includes Cook Strait Ferries and school transport but does not include designated carriages on specified Kiwirail services in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic visiting the public areas within courts, tribunals, local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a healthcare service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask on domestic flights. You are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings. --- Section Separator --- For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of exemptions — where a face mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Workers who are mandated to be vaccinated will need to wear a medical grade mask (Type IIR/Level 2 or above) when working in public facing roles. This includes food and drink businesses, close-proximity businesses, gyms, events and gatherings, and teachers of students in Years 4 to 13. You can take your face mask off to eat or drink. You do not need to wear a face mask in non-public facing workplaces. However,  employers can apply their own policies for mask use. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has advice about the requirements for face masks in different sectors. Face mask requirement for workers and customers | business.govt.nz (external link) The Ministry of Health has information about the use of personal protective equipment (PPE) in a health and disability care setting. PPE in health and disability care settings | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask How to make a face mask --- Section Separator --- Our rules for wearing face masks have changed. Most people can still make and wear fabric face masks. Fabric face masks should have at least 3 layers and can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. They must be attached to your head with loops around your ears or head — you cannot use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts that have been pulled up over your face. You must also make sure your face mask covers your nose and mouth properly. Workers who are mandated to be vaccinated must wear a medical-grade face mask when working in public-facing roles. In this case, you cannot wear a fabric face mask. When you must wear a face mask Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Moisture-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Optional: Swap a cotton piece of fabric for a non-woven fabric like spunbond to enhance filtration, 19.5 x 19 cm Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. To enhance filtration of your face mask, you can swap the inner layer to use spunbond. Cut out a rectangle from the moisture-resistant fabric for the outer layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take the outer piece of fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of fabric together (with the spunbond in the middle, if using). Make sure the moisture-resistant fabric that will be on the outside of your face mask is turned inwards here. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face mask in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. --- Section Separator --- Our rules for wearing face masks have changed. Most people can still make and wear fabric face masks. Fabric face masks should have at least 3 layers and can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. They must be attached to your head with loops around your ears or head — you cannot use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts that have been pulled up over your face. You must also make sure your face mask covers your nose and mouth properly. Workers who are mandated to be vaccinated must wear a medical-grade face mask when working in public-facing roles. In this case, you cannot wear a fabric face mask. When you must wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Moisture-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Optional: Swap a cotton piece of fabric for a non-woven fabric like spunbond to enhance filtration, 19.5 x 19 cm Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. To enhance filtration of your face mask, you can swap the inner layer to use spunbond. Cut out a rectangle from the moisture-resistant fabric for the outer layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take the outer piece of fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of fabric together (with the spunbond in the middle, if using). Make sure the moisture-resistant fabric that will be on the outside of your face mask is turned inwards here. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face mask in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks Keep track of where you have been Stay safe this summer
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask How to wear a face mask safely --- Section Separator --- Never share face masks with other people. We do not recommend face masks be worn by: young children or people who could not remove them without assistance people who have trouble breathing. Do not re-use a face mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. Before you put on your face mask, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Place the face mask over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face mask should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. The effectiveness of a face mask can be improved by making sure your mask is tightly fitted to prevent any air gaps between the mask and your face. Clean or sanitise your hands first. Fold the mask top to bottom. Tie a knot where the string attaches to the mask and pull tight. Do this on both sides of the mask. Place the face mask over your nose, mouth and chin. Fit the mask comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face. Make sure you mould the nose wire to your nose and there are no gaps at the sides. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your mask down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your mask off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the mask, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth masks by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the mask completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp mask. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put masks in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face masks. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face mask safely. How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Never share face masks with other people. We do not recommend face masks be worn by: young children or people who could not remove them without assistance people who have trouble breathing. Do not re-use a face mask once it has become damp or after you have used it already that day. --- Section Separator --- Before you put on your face mask, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Place the face mask over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face mask should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- The effectiveness of a face mask can be improved by making sure your mask is tightly fitted to prevent any air gaps between the mask and your face. Clean or sanitise your hands first. Fold the mask top to bottom. Tie a knot where the string attaches to the mask and pull tight. Do this on both sides of the mask. Place the face mask over your nose, mouth and chin. Fit the mask comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face. Make sure you mould the nose wire to your nose and there are no gaps at the sides. --- Section Separator --- If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your mask down below your chin. --- Section Separator --- Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your mask off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the mask, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth masks by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the mask completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp mask. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put masks in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face masks. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- The World Health Organization (WHO) has made a video that summarises how to wear a face mask safely. --- Section Separator --- How to wear a face covering safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face covering [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks Keep track of where you have been Stay safe this summer
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask Types of face masks --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. To be effective, a face mask should: go over your nose, mouth and chin be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides be used correctly and consistently not be damp. A mask that is not fitted correctly may become ineffective. It may not offer enough protection for you or those around you against COVID-19 spreading. How to wear a face mask safely Different types of face masks can provide different levels of protection, depending on the type of mask and how they are used. You should find a face mask that best fits you. There are several things you should think about when selecting the right face mask for you. This includes: your level of infection risk how well the face mask fits you the filtration ability of the material comfort. However, any face mask is better than no face mask. You can use a fabric face mask. But the effectiveness of fabric face masks can vary depending on the style and materials used. You should look for reusable fabric face masks that have at least 3 layers and are made of tightly woven fabric, such as cotton. Ideally face masks should also use 2 different types of fabric that still allow easy breathing but provide filtration and a good fit. Face masks with more than one layer will help contain any respiratory droplets. You can increase protection of your fabric face mask by adding a ‘filter layer’ and a nose bridge wire to mould the face mask to your face. A filter layer could be a specific face mask filter or a cut down disposable face mask to add to a face mask pocket. Fabric face masks can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. Taking care of your face mask is important. You should wash fabric face masks daily using soap and hot water, and completely dry them before using again. You should have enough face masks to at least wash one and wear one. Check for wear and tear to make sure there are no holes and they are still in good condition. Many stores and online retailers offer these types of face masks. You can also make your own but make sure it has at least 3 layers. How to make a face covering Disposable face masks with ear loops can offer better protection for a longer period than fabric face masks, especially in higher-risk indoor settings. These are the widely available ‘blue’ medical masks. They are often called ‘medical’, ‘surgical’ and ‘procedural’ masks. For use in healthcare, they must comply to a certain standard. Many disposable masks may not be certified to medical standards, but still provide effective protection. You can find these at many retail stores, supermarkets or pharmacies. Some relevant social services agencies or organisations may also be able to provide some. To make these masks fit better and get a snug fit: pinch the nose wire try layering them with a fabric mask over top knot the ear loops where they attach to the mask, then fold and tuck excess material under the edges try pulling the ear loops back and securing together with a hair tie or clip. How to wear a face mask safely Try to avoid twisting the ear loop into a figure 8, as this will likely cause a side gap that could let virus particles in. Double masking or layering can provide greater protection as the other layer, preferably a fabric mask can help to stop any leaks around the top and sides of the bottom mask. To reuse these masks, you can submerge them in boiling water for a few minutes and hang them out to dry. You can do this up to 10 times. When they start to show wear, dispose of them. Disposable high-filtration face masks or particulate respirators offer the highest level of protection, when used correctly. These face masks work best when a person is ‘fit tested’ so that there is a tight seal against the wearer’s face. It is important to follow manufacturer’s instructions on how to mold these face masks to your face so there are no gaps. These face masks can offer hours of protection when in high-risk indoor settings where there is no or little ventilation. But they need to have a very tight seal around the face. If there is not a tight seal around the face, these face masks do not provide any better protection than a well-fitting medical mask. You can reuse these face masks several times if you leave them for 5 to 7 days between each use. If they no longer provide a tight fit around your face, then you should dispose of them. Particulate respirator face masks come in a variety of models, prices, availability and suitability. Demand for these masks has been high. They are often identified by which international regulatory standard they meet. P2 is the Australia/New Zealand respiratory standard. N95 is the United States respiratory standard. KN95 is the Chinese respiratory standard. FFP2 is the European respiratory standard. Currently frontline staff at the border and in healthcare settings who are at greater risk of exposure to COVID-19 need these face masks. Choose a face mask for children that fits them best, is comfortable to wear and can be worn consistently. The face mask should cover their nose, mouth, and chin without gaps above, below or on the sides. This can be a reusable fabric mask with 3 layers or a medical disposable mask. Many fabric masks (either purchased or made) come in child sizes. For commonly available medical masks, you can use the knot and tuck technique to improve the fit to a child's face. How to make a face mask fit tightly These types of face masks or coverings provide very little protection against transmission of COVID-19. A face shield is not recommended as it will provide very little protection against droplets or aerosol spray. Dust masks are not recommended, as they have a one-way valve which can allow droplets to spread. Masks that are showing wear and tear. If there is any thinning of the material, holes, or the ties or elastic loops can no longer keep the mask in place, you should replace it. Scarves, bandannas, buffs or t-shirts are no longer acceptable as face coverings. --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. To be effective, a face mask should: go over your nose, mouth and chin be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides be used correctly and consistently not be damp. A mask that is not fitted correctly may become ineffective. It may not offer enough protection for you or those around you against COVID-19 spreading. How to wear a face mask safely --- Section Separator --- Different types of face masks can provide different levels of protection, depending on the type of mask and how they are used. You should find a face mask that best fits you. There are several things you should think about when selecting the right face mask for you. This includes: your level of infection risk how well the face mask fits you the filtration ability of the material comfort. However, any face mask is better than no face mask. --- Section Separator --- You can use a fabric face mask. But the effectiveness of fabric face masks can vary depending on the style and materials used. You should look for reusable fabric face masks that have at least 3 layers and are made of tightly woven fabric, such as cotton. Ideally face masks should also use 2 different types of fabric that still allow easy breathing but provide filtration and a good fit. Face masks with more than one layer will help contain any respiratory droplets. You can increase protection of your fabric face mask by adding a ‘filter layer’ and a nose bridge wire to mould the face mask to your face. A filter layer could be a specific face mask filter or a cut down disposable face mask to add to a face mask pocket. Fabric face masks can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. Taking care of your face mask is important. You should wash fabric face masks daily using soap and hot water, and completely dry them before using again. You should have enough face masks to at least wash one and wear one. Check for wear and tear to make sure there are no holes and they are still in good condition. Many stores and online retailers offer these types of face masks. You can also make your own but make sure it has at least 3 layers. How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- Disposable face masks with ear loops can offer better protection for a longer period than fabric face masks, especially in higher-risk indoor settings. These are the widely available ‘blue’ medical masks. They are often called ‘medical’, ‘surgical’ and ‘procedural’ masks. For use in healthcare, they must comply to a certain standard. Many disposable masks may not be certified to medical standards, but still provide effective protection. You can find these at many retail stores, supermarkets or pharmacies. Some relevant social services agencies or organisations may also be able to provide some. To make these masks fit better and get a snug fit: pinch the nose wire try layering them with a fabric mask over top knot the ear loops where they attach to the mask, then fold and tuck excess material under the edges try pulling the ear loops back and securing together with a hair tie or clip. How to wear a face mask safely Try to avoid twisting the ear loop into a figure 8, as this will likely cause a side gap that could let virus particles in. Double masking or layering can provide greater protection as the other layer, preferably a fabric mask can help to stop any leaks around the top and sides of the bottom mask. To reuse these masks, you can submerge them in boiling water for a few minutes and hang them out to dry. You can do this up to 10 times. When they start to show wear, dispose of them. --- Section Separator --- Disposable high-filtration face masks or particulate respirators offer the highest level of protection, when used correctly. These face masks work best when a person is ‘fit tested’ so that there is a tight seal against the wearer’s face. It is important to follow manufacturer’s instructions on how to mold these face masks to your face so there are no gaps. These face masks can offer hours of protection when in high-risk indoor settings where there is no or little ventilation. But they need to have a very tight seal around the face. If there is not a tight seal around the face, these face masks do not provide any better protection than a well-fitting medical mask. You can reuse these face masks several times if you leave them for 5 to 7 days between each use. If they no longer provide a tight fit around your face, then you should dispose of them. Particulate respirator face masks come in a variety of models, prices, availability and suitability. Demand for these masks has been high. They are often identified by which international regulatory standard they meet. P2 is the Australia/New Zealand respiratory standard. N95 is the United States respiratory standard. KN95 is the Chinese respiratory standard. FFP2 is the European respiratory standard. Currently frontline staff at the border and in healthcare settings who are at greater risk of exposure to COVID-19 need these face masks. --- Section Separator --- Choose a face mask for children that fits them best, is comfortable to wear and can be worn consistently. The face mask should cover their nose, mouth, and chin without gaps above, below or on the sides. This can be a reusable fabric mask with 3 layers or a medical disposable mask. Many fabric masks (either purchased or made) come in child sizes. For commonly available medical masks, you can use the knot and tuck technique to improve the fit to a child's face. How to make a face mask fit tightly --- Section Separator --- These types of face masks or coverings provide very little protection against transmission of COVID-19. A face shield is not recommended as it will provide very little protection against droplets or aerosol spray. Dust masks are not recommended, as they have a one-way valve which can allow droplets to spread. Masks that are showing wear and tear. If there is any thinning of the material, holes, or the ties or elastic loops can no longer keep the mask in place, you should replace it. Scarves, bandannas, buffs or t-shirts are no longer acceptable as face coverings. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks Keep track of where you have been Stay safe this summer
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. We also know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face mask. Please be mindful of this. They still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. In general, you should wear a face mask whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by droplets, so masks are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. by children under 12 — except at Red for those aged 8 years or over or in Year 4 or above when indoors at school and on public and school transport at a gathering if there is exclusive use of the venue or defined space, for example weddings or funerals on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry. it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face mask unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind or has a disability which makes it hard to have effective communication you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face mask. Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a mask. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, you need to keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. We also know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face mask. Please be mindful of this. They still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. In general, you should wear a face mask whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by droplets, so masks are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. by children under 12 — except at Red for those aged 8 years or over or in Year 4 or above when indoors at school and on public and school transport at a gathering if there is exclusive use of the venue or defined space, for example weddings or funerals on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry. it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face mask unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind or has a disability which makes it hard to have effective communication you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. --- Section Separator --- We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face mask. Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a mask. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, you need to keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks Keep track of where you have been Stay safe this summer
Home Prepare and stay safe Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Getting through together | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) You can also find a list of tools and information on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Mental health and wellbeing resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | dia.govt.nz (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Getting through together | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) You can also find a list of tools and information on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Mental health and wellbeing resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | dia.govt.nz (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Be prepared for COVID-19 Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities In an emergency
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, locations of interest, and how the NZ COVID Tracer app works. Close Contacts may live or work with someone who has COVID-19. Find advice on what you and your household members need to do. Casual Contacts have been at the same place at the same time as someone with COVID-19. Find advice on what you and your household members need to do. Find out what you need to do if you live with someone who might have COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, locations of interest, and how the NZ COVID Tracer app works. Close Contacts may live or work with someone who has COVID-19. Find advice on what you and your household members need to do. Casual Contacts have been at the same place at the same time as someone with COVID-19. Find advice on what you and your household members need to do. Find out what you need to do if you live with someone who might have COVID-19.
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Casual Contacts --- Section Separator --- You are considered a Casual Contact if you have been at a location of interest at the same time as someone infectious with COVID-19. But you may not have been near the person. Casual Contacts are at lower risk of getting sick with COVID-19. You may receive a yellow QR notification for a location of interest in the NZ COVID Tracer app. The notification will give you advice about what to do and a link for more information. You can check locations of interest on the Ministry of Health website: Locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) Whether you are vaccinated or not, you need to watch for symptoms for 10 days. If you get symptoms: get a test stay home until you get a negative test result. You can call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on isolation and testing. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need to do anything if you live with someone who is a Casual Contact. This applies to both fully vaccinated and not fully vaccinated people. There’s financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Financial support You can find more information and advice on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You are considered a Casual Contact if you have been at a location of interest at the same time as someone infectious with COVID-19. But you may not have been near the person. Casual Contacts are at lower risk of getting sick with COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- You may receive a yellow QR notification for a location of interest in the NZ COVID Tracer app. The notification will give you advice about what to do and a link for more information. You can check locations of interest on the Ministry of Health website: Locations of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Whether you are vaccinated or not, you need to watch for symptoms for 10 days. If you get symptoms: get a test stay home until you get a negative test result. You can call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on isolation and testing. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- You do not need to do anything if you live with someone who is a Casual Contact. This applies to both fully vaccinated and not fully vaccinated people. --- Section Separator --- There’s financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Financial support --- Section Separator --- You can find more information and advice on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Close Contacts Casual Contacts Household members
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts are at higher risk of getting COVID-19. You are a Close Contact in the following situations. If you live with someone who is positive. If you have been close (within 1.5 metres) to someone who is positive: for more than 15 minutes and they were not wearing a mask or not wearing it properly. If you have had direct contact with someone who is positive. For example: kissing sharing a cigarette, vape or drink bottle if the person coughed or sneezed directly on you. If you spent time in an indoor space with someone who is positive for more than 1 hour and at least one of the following: they were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing they were not wearing a mask or it was not on properly it was poorly ventilated it was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you can expect to be contacted by someone from the Ministry of Health’s National Investigation and Tracing Centre or a Public Health Unit. You may receive an orange Bluetooth notification in the NZ COVID Tracer app. The notification will give you advice about what to do and it is important to follow these instructions. You may also receive a yellow QR notification for a location of interest in the NZ COVID Tracer app. You should get tested immediately. Whether you are vaccinated or not, you need to: stay home and self-isolate from others for 10 days from your last contact with the case get a test for COVID-19 straight away , on day 5 , and on day 8 after your last contact with the case get another test straight away if you develop COVID-19 symptoms. How to self-isolate You are considered a secondary contact if a household member is a Close Contact and they have been asked to isolate. If you are a secondary contact you may need stay at home until the Close Contact returns a negative day 5 test result. If the Close Contact develops symptoms after a day 5 negative test, secondary contacts may need to stay home again until a further negative test result is returned. If one or more household members of the Close Contact develop symptoms they should: get a test stay home until they get a negative test result and it has been 24 hours without symptoms. There’s financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Find out what financial support is available You can find more information and advice on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts are at higher risk of getting COVID-19. You are a Close Contact in the following situations. If you live with someone who is positive. If you have been close (within 1.5 metres) to someone who is positive: for more than 15 minutes and they were not wearing a mask or not wearing it properly. If you have had direct contact with someone who is positive. For example: kissing sharing a cigarette, vape or drink bottle if the person coughed or sneezed directly on you. If you spent time in an indoor space with someone who is positive for more than 1 hour and at least one of the following: they were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing they were not wearing a mask or it was not on properly it was poorly ventilated it was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). --- Section Separator --- If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you can expect to be contacted by someone from the Ministry of Health’s National Investigation and Tracing Centre or a Public Health Unit. You may receive an orange Bluetooth notification in the NZ COVID Tracer app. The notification will give you advice about what to do and it is important to follow these instructions. You may also receive a yellow QR notification for a location of interest in the NZ COVID Tracer app. You should get tested immediately. --- Section Separator --- Whether you are vaccinated or not, you need to: stay home and self-isolate from others for 10 days from your last contact with the case get a test for COVID-19 straight away , on day 5 , and on day 8 after your last contact with the case get another test straight away if you develop COVID-19 symptoms. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- You are considered a secondary contact if a household member is a Close Contact and they have been asked to isolate. If you are a secondary contact you may need stay at home until the Close Contact returns a negative day 5 test result. If the Close Contact develops symptoms after a day 5 negative test, secondary contacts may need to stay home again until a further negative test result is returned. If one or more household members of the Close Contact develop symptoms they should: get a test stay home until they get a negative test result and it has been 24 hours without symptoms. --- Section Separator --- There’s financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Find out what financial support is available --- Section Separator --- You can find more information and advice on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Close Contacts Casual Contacts Household members
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Critical workers --- Section Separator --- Part of New Zealand’s response to Omicron will mean an increased use of rapid antigen tests (RATs) for critical workers. Using RATs will make sure workers are available to maintain critical infrastructure and supply chains. Critical workers are people who work for a critical service or organisation. If you are part of the critical workforce and a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you may be able to keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Close Contacts During the Omicron response, workers at registered critical services who are a Close Contact may continue to work. They are critical workers. To qualify for an exemption as a critical worker, they will need to: be deemed critical by their employer work in a critical service, as listed below be fully vaccinated be asymptomatic return a negative rapid antigen test unsupervised before each day/shift they work during their isolation period follow specific health protocols only go to work — they cannot go anywhere else. Workers should talk to their employer if they think they meet the criteria to be part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Eligible workers will be able to collect free rapid antigen tests from collection sites. Testing and returning to work during Omicron | business.govt.nz (external link) Rapid antigen testing guidance for critical workers | health.govt.nz (external link) Critical services include: food production and its supply chain key public services like health and emergency services lifeline utilities such as power and water supplies transport critical financial services news media social welfare human and animal health and welfare. Businesses and organisations can self-assess and sign up to the scheme on business.govt.nz: Close Contact Exemption Scheme (external link) You may also be able to keep working if you are a Close Contact if you are not customer facing and can maintain your bubble while working. This applies to any workers or sole traders, not just critical workers. To work under a bubble of 1, workers must: be fully vaccinated not have COVID-19 symptoms not have contact with anyone else at work. You do not need to use rapid antigen tests to return to work and businesses will not need to register for the ‘bubble of 1’. Bubble of 1 for workers who are Close Contacts | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Part of New Zealand’s response to Omicron will mean an increased use of rapid antigen tests (RATs) for critical workers. Using RATs will make sure workers are available to maintain critical infrastructure and supply chains. Critical workers are people who work for a critical service or organisation. If you are part of the critical workforce and a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you may be able to keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- During the Omicron response, workers at registered critical services who are a Close Contact may continue to work. They are critical workers. To qualify for an exemption as a critical worker, they will need to: be deemed critical by their employer work in a critical service, as listed below be fully vaccinated be asymptomatic return a negative rapid antigen test unsupervised before each day/shift they work during their isolation period follow specific health protocols only go to work — they cannot go anywhere else. Workers should talk to their employer if they think they meet the criteria to be part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Eligible workers will be able to collect free rapid antigen tests from collection sites. Testing and returning to work during Omicron | business.govt.nz (external link) Rapid antigen testing guidance for critical workers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Critical services include: food production and its supply chain key public services like health and emergency services lifeline utilities such as power and water supplies transport critical financial services news media social welfare human and animal health and welfare. Businesses and organisations can self-assess and sign up to the scheme on business.govt.nz: Close Contact Exemption Scheme (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may also be able to keep working if you are a Close Contact if you are not customer facing and can maintain your bubble while working. This applies to any workers or sole traders, not just critical workers. To work under a bubble of 1, workers must: be fully vaccinated not have COVID-19 symptoms not have contact with anyone else at work. You do not need to use rapid antigen tests to return to work and businesses will not need to register for the ‘bubble of 1’. Bubble of 1 for workers who are Close Contacts | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Close Contacts Casual Contacts Critical workers
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Household members --- Section Separator --- Household members — also called Secondary Contacts — are people who live with someone who: is waiting for a COVID-19 test result, or is self-isolating after returning from overseas. If you live with a person who has COVID-19, you are a Close Contact. What to do if you are a Close Contact If you have been at a location of interest at the same time as someone with COVID-19, but you may not have been near them, you are a Casual Contact. What to do if you are a Casual Contact It is up to the people who share your home to tell you if they: are waiting for a COVID-19 test result have COVID-19 are self-isolating, or are a Close or Casual contact of someone with COVID-19 You may get a phone call or text message from the National Investigation and Tracing Centre (NITC) or a notification in the NZ COVID Tracer app. If you are living with someone who is waiting for a COVID-19 test result, you do not need to self-isolate. You can leave your home, including to go to work or school and to shop. This applies to both fully vaccinated and not fully vaccinated people. Take common-sense precautions to limit contact with the person until they receive a negative test result. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and get a test if you develop any. If you are living with someone who is self-isolating after returning from overseas, you do not need to self-isolate. You can leave your home, including to go to work or school and to shop. This applies to both fully vaccinated and not fully vaccinated people. Take common-sense precautions to limit contact with the person self-isolating. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and get a test if you develop any. If the self-isolating traveller receives a positive COVID-19 test result, follow the guidance for Close Contacts . What to do if you are a Close Contact If you live with a Close Contact, you should also self-isolate until they receive a negative day 5 test result. This applies to both fully vaccinated and not fully vaccinated people. Take common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with them. If the Close Contact develops symptoms after a day 5 negative test, you should continue to stay home until they receive a further negative test result. If you or any other household member of the Close Contact develop symptoms you should: get a test stay home until you get a negative test result and it has been 24 hours without symptoms. How to self-isolate If you live with a Casual Contact, you do not need to do anything. This applies to both fully vaccinated and not fully vaccinated people. You do not need to get a COVID-19 test unless you develop symptoms. You do not need to self-isolate. COVID-19: Staying at home | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Actions for contacts | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Household members — also called Secondary Contacts — are people who live with someone who: is waiting for a COVID-19 test result, or is self-isolating after returning from overseas. If you live with a person who has COVID-19, you are a Close Contact. What to do if you are a Close Contact If you have been at a location of interest at the same time as someone with COVID-19, but you may not have been near them, you are a Casual Contact. What to do if you are a Casual Contact --- Section Separator --- It is up to the people who share your home to tell you if they: are waiting for a COVID-19 test result have COVID-19 are self-isolating, or are a Close or Casual contact of someone with COVID-19 You may get a phone call or text message from the National Investigation and Tracing Centre (NITC) or a notification in the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- If you are living with someone who is waiting for a COVID-19 test result, you do not need to self-isolate. You can leave your home, including to go to work or school and to shop. This applies to both fully vaccinated and not fully vaccinated people. Take common-sense precautions to limit contact with the person until they receive a negative test result. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and get a test if you develop any. If you are living with someone who is self-isolating after returning from overseas, you do not need to self-isolate. You can leave your home, including to go to work or school and to shop. This applies to both fully vaccinated and not fully vaccinated people. Take common-sense precautions to limit contact with the person self-isolating. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and get a test if you develop any. If the self-isolating traveller receives a positive COVID-19 test result, follow the guidance for Close Contacts . What to do if you are a Close Contact If you live with a Close Contact, you should also self-isolate until they receive a negative day 5 test result. This applies to both fully vaccinated and not fully vaccinated people. Take common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with them. If the Close Contact develops symptoms after a day 5 negative test, you should continue to stay home until they receive a further negative test result. If you or any other household member of the Close Contact develop symptoms you should: get a test stay home until you get a negative test result and it has been 24 hours without symptoms. How to self-isolate If you live with a Casual Contact, you do not need to do anything. This applies to both fully vaccinated and not fully vaccinated people. You do not need to get a COVID-19 test unless you develop symptoms. You do not need to self-isolate. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19: Staying at home | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Actions for contacts | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Close Contacts Casual Contacts Household members
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is contact tracing. More about contact tracing — Ministry of Health website (external link) A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. There are 2 types of contacts: Close Contact Casual Contact If you are identified as a contact and use the NZ COVID Tracer app, you may get a notification that will provide advice and more information. The Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit may also contact you. Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. Depending on the circumstances, you are considered a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a COVID-19 test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. The person with COVID-19 is interviewed along with the people they live and work with. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes. If they have, this gives us all the information needed to: start finding the source of a cluster or community transmission find anyone else who has had exposure to the virus. It helps if they have also taken notes for those times when the QR code was not available. If they have not used the app, there is a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down considerably, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. If the person was using the app and scanning QR codes, we can be certain of where they were at exact times. An alert can be sent via the app, warning others of the risk. If you have scanned in somewhere that someone with COVID-19 has been at the same time, you will see a yellow alert on the app dashboard. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, and it identifies you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you will see an orange alert on the dashboard. Find out more about the different NZ COVID Tracer alerts you can get | health.govt.nz (external link) If an alert does go out, anyone who has been using the app will get information telling them they may have had exposure to COVID-19. This will include information on what you should do next to protect yourself, your whānau and the community. People who do not have the app will not be able to receive the alerts. That means there may be a delay before they find out if there is a threat of the virus in their community. You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been If you own or run a business: display QR code posters have an alternative record keeping system for people who do not use the app . How contact tracing keeps us safe Golden rules of contact tracing --- Section Separator --- If someone has COVID-19, the Ministry of Health and district health boards (DHBs) find people who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is contact tracing. More about contact tracing — Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- A contact is someone who has had exposure to a confirmed or probable case of COVID-19. You are a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time as a person with COVID-19. There are 2 types of contacts: Close Contact Casual Contact If you are identified as a contact and use the NZ COVID Tracer app, you may get a notification that will provide advice and more information. The Ministry of Health or your Public Health Unit may also contact you. --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 visited. Depending on the circumstances, you are considered a contact if you were at a location of interest at the same time. There are different levels of contact — the Ministry of Health lists locations of interest and has advice on what you need to do if you are a contact. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app is our fastest way of responding to the virus — the faster we respond, the faster we stop it. The app also keeps people informed of the risk. Usually this is from a COVID-19 test, someone visiting a doctor when ill or calling Healthline. The person with COVID-19 is interviewed along with the people they live and work with. They will be asked if they have used the official NZ COVID Tracer app to scan QR codes. If they have, this gives us all the information needed to: start finding the source of a cluster or community transmission find anyone else who has had exposure to the virus. It helps if they have also taken notes for those times when the QR code was not available. If they have not used the app, there is a much more lengthy process to find out the same answers. This slows things down considerably, allowing COVID-19 more time to spread to others in the community. If the person was using the app and scanning QR codes, we can be certain of where they were at exact times. An alert can be sent via the app, warning others of the risk. If you have scanned in somewhere that someone with COVID-19 has been at the same time, you will see a yellow alert on the app dashboard. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, and it identifies you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you will see an orange alert on the dashboard. Find out more about the different NZ COVID Tracer alerts you can get | health.govt.nz (external link) If an alert does go out, anyone who has been using the app will get information telling them they may have had exposure to COVID-19. This will include information on what you should do next to protect yourself, your whānau and the community. People who do not have the app will not be able to receive the alerts. That means there may be a delay before they find out if there is a threat of the virus in their community. --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Scan QR codes or keep a record of where you have been If you own or run a business: display QR code posters have an alternative record keeping system for people who do not use the app . --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing keeps us safe Golden rules of contact tracing --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Close Contacts Casual Contacts Household members
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Getting tested for COVID-19 is free. Find information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- Find out about the types of COVID-19 tests used in New Zealand. Anyone can get a free COVID-19 test. You may need to get a test if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, if you have been at a location of interest or are a contact of a case, if you are travelling, or if you fall under mandatory testing. You can get a COVID-19 test at a range of locations, including community testing centres, doctors practices and pharmacies. Find out what to expect when you get a PCR test, and what you need to do after your test. --- Section Separator --- Find out about the types of COVID-19 tests used in New Zealand. Anyone can get a free COVID-19 test. You may need to get a test if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, if you have been at a location of interest or are a contact of a case, if you are travelling, or if you fall under mandatory testing. You can get a COVID-19 test at a range of locations, including community testing centres, doctors practices and pharmacies. Find out what to expect when you get a PCR test, and what you need to do after your test.
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Rapid antigen tests (RATs) --- Section Separator --- A rapid antigen test (often called a RAT) is generally taken with a front of nose swab. It can be done in hospitals, medical centres, pharmacies, workplaces and at home. Rapid antigen test results are available in about 20 minutes compared to 2 to 5 days for a PCR test. Rapid antigen tests are not: as accurate at detecting COVID-19 as nasal and saliva PCR tests used for diagnosis of people with COVID-19 symptoms a replacement for existing nasal and saliva PCR tests mandatory for businesses acceptable for mandatory surveillance testing under the Required Testing Order (RTO) a replacement for vaccination. RATs will be used to support those that need them the most — our vulnerable populations and the critical workers that keep the country going and support our wellbeing. If you come under one of these categories and are required to have a RAT, you do not need to pay. You are a critical worker if your service is registered and involved in: food production and manufacturing distribution and sale of basic food principal accommodation (including providing people with their primary residence, such as an apartment in a hotel, social/emergency housing, or self-isolation) health services key public services key support systems and services, or services required for the maintenance or operation of critical sector businesses or services listed above. Vaccinated critical workers who are a Close Contact but have no symptoms will be able to get free rapid antigen tests (RATs) under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. You will need to have a negative RAT every day you are at work throughout your required self-isolation period. You are only allowed to go to work – not anywhere else. Close Contact Exemption Scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) If you are a COVID-19 response worker, you will be given RATs by your employer, if you need to go to work. You are a COVID response worker if you work: at a district health board at general practices and pharmacies at aged residential care facilities for the Police or Corrections at managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Your workplace may be able to provide you with access to free RATs. If you are a critical worker, you can get free RATs by ordering online and picking them up from a collection site. You will need to be able to show: a letter from the Critical Services Register an authorisation letter from your employer, confirming you are a critical worker at a critical business workplace ID (if applicable) personal ID (for example, a driver’s licence) evidence that you are a Close Contact (for example, a text message from the National Investigation and Tracing Centre confirming that you are a Close Contact) your My Vaccine Pass. Using RATs in the Omicron outbreak | health.govt.nz (external link) How to take the test will vary, depending on the brand of RAT. If you are doing the test yourself, we recommend following the manufacturer’s instructions. All RAT kits should be kept out of reach of young children and stored safely according to the manufacturer’s instructions. If you get a negative test result and do not have symptoms, you can go to work. If you get a positive test result , you must self-isolate immediately and get a PCR test. You will need to get a follow-up PCR test immediately from your doctor or community testing centre. If a result is failed or indeterminate you must take the test again. Workers must re-test if it was their first record of the day or isolate and get a PCR test if it was not. To report your result, log in to your My Covid Record account or call 0800 222 478 and press option 3. You must let your employer know the result of your test. You can get a free supervised RAT from a participating community pharmacy if: you are asymptomatic, unvaccinated, aged 12 years and 3 months or over and travelling domestically with a transport company that requires testing of unvaccinated individuals you are asymptomatic, unvaccinated and attending a court of law. Vulnerable people who are at heightened risk when symptomatic will be able to get a free supervised RAT from their GP or community provider. From 27 February, newly arrived vaccinated New Zealanders and eligible travellers from Australia will be provided with RATs to use while in self-isolation. Businesses may also choose to use their own private supplies of RATs with their workforce. Businesses can find out about approved RATs on the Ministry of Health website: Regulatory framework for RATs | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- A rapid antigen test (often called a RAT) is generally taken with a front of nose swab. It can be done in hospitals, medical centres, pharmacies, workplaces and at home. Rapid antigen test results are available in about 20 minutes compared to 2 to 5 days for a PCR test. Rapid antigen tests are not: as accurate at detecting COVID-19 as nasal and saliva PCR tests used for diagnosis of people with COVID-19 symptoms a replacement for existing nasal and saliva PCR tests mandatory for businesses acceptable for mandatory surveillance testing under the Required Testing Order (RTO) a replacement for vaccination. --- Section Separator --- RATs will be used to support those that need them the most — our vulnerable populations and the critical workers that keep the country going and support our wellbeing. If you come under one of these categories and are required to have a RAT, you do not need to pay. You are a critical worker if your service is registered and involved in: food production and manufacturing distribution and sale of basic food principal accommodation (including providing people with their primary residence, such as an apartment in a hotel, social/emergency housing, or self-isolation) health services key public services key support systems and services, or services required for the maintenance or operation of critical sector businesses or services listed above. Vaccinated critical workers who are a Close Contact but have no symptoms will be able to get free rapid antigen tests (RATs) under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. You will need to have a negative RAT every day you are at work throughout your required self-isolation period. You are only allowed to go to work – not anywhere else. Close Contact Exemption Scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) If you are a COVID-19 response worker, you will be given RATs by your employer, if you need to go to work. You are a COVID response worker if you work: at a district health board at general practices and pharmacies at aged residential care facilities for the Police or Corrections at managed isolation and quarantine facilities. --- Section Separator --- Your workplace may be able to provide you with access to free RATs. If you are a critical worker, you can get free RATs by ordering online and picking them up from a collection site. You will need to be able to show: a letter from the Critical Services Register an authorisation letter from your employer, confirming you are a critical worker at a critical business workplace ID (if applicable) personal ID (for example, a driver’s licence) evidence that you are a Close Contact (for example, a text message from the National Investigation and Tracing Centre confirming that you are a Close Contact) your My Vaccine Pass. Using RATs in the Omicron outbreak | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to take the test will vary, depending on the brand of RAT. If you are doing the test yourself, we recommend following the manufacturer’s instructions. All RAT kits should be kept out of reach of young children and stored safely according to the manufacturer’s instructions. --- Section Separator --- If you get a negative test result and do not have symptoms, you can go to work. If you get a positive test result , you must self-isolate immediately and get a PCR test. You will need to get a follow-up PCR test immediately from your doctor or community testing centre. If a result is failed or indeterminate you must take the test again. Workers must re-test if it was their first record of the day or isolate and get a PCR test if it was not. To report your result, log in to your My Covid Record account or call 0800 222 478 and press option 3. You must let your employer know the result of your test. --- Section Separator --- You can get a free supervised RAT from a participating community pharmacy if: you are asymptomatic, unvaccinated, aged 12 years and 3 months or over and travelling domestically with a transport company that requires testing of unvaccinated individuals you are asymptomatic, unvaccinated and attending a court of law. Vulnerable people who are at heightened risk when symptomatic will be able to get a free supervised RAT from their GP or community provider. From 27 February, newly arrived vaccinated New Zealanders and eligible travellers from Australia will be provided with RATs to use while in self-isolation. Businesses may also choose to use their own private supplies of RATs with their workforce. Businesses can find out about approved RATs on the Ministry of Health website: Regulatory framework for RATs | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Types of COVID-19 tests PCR tests Rapid antigen tests (RATs) When you should get a test Where to get tested
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Types of COVID-19 tests --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 tests are free. This includes if you: are told to get a test by a health official have symptoms come under mandatory testing, for example, if you work at the border or are a contact of a confirmed case require a test for domestic travel. When you should get a COVID-19 test If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. Surveillance testing by the business sector, which is outside the mandatory requirements, is not part of the public health response and is not free. You may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not have to pay for care if you test positive. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. In New Zealand there are 3 types of tests for COVID-19. High levels of testing is one way we can keep Omicron out of the community. If Omicron spreads, tests will be focussed on people who are: symptomatic vulnerable essential workers close contacts. The most common test is a swab of the back of your nose — this is often called a nasopharyngeal test, or PCR test. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. Another way is to swab the back of your throat and nose. It can be done at community testing centres, hospitals and medical centres. Results can take 2 to 5 days. This testing is available for border workers. Saliva samples can be self-collected and dropped off at a collection point or observed by health care worker. A rapid antigen test (often called a RAT) is generally taken with a front of nose swab. It can be done in hospitals, medical centres, pharmacies and at home. Rapid antigen test results are available much faster than a PCR test — about 15 minutes compared to 2 to 5 days. RATs will be used more widely if Omicron spreads. If you get a positive result, you will need to get a follow-up PCR test immediately from your doctor or community testing centre. Rapid antigen tests are not : as accurate at detecting COVID-19 as nasal and saliva PCR tests used for diagnosis of people with COVID-19 symptoms a replacement for existing nasal and saliva PCR tests mandatory for businesses acceptable for mandatory surveillance testing under the Required Testing Order (RTO) a replacement for vaccination. Free rapid antigen tests are available at selected community pharmacies until 30 June 2022. The tests are available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company, for example Air New Zealand. Find pharmacies offering supervised RATs | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Even if you have had your vaccination, you should still get tested for COVID-19 if you develop symptoms or if you are subject to regular testing. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 tests are free. This includes if you: are told to get a test by a health official have symptoms come under mandatory testing, for example, if you work at the border or are a contact of a confirmed case require a test for domestic travel. When you should get a COVID-19 test If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. Surveillance testing by the business sector, which is outside the mandatory requirements, is not part of the public health response and is not free. You may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not have to pay for care if you test positive. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. --- Section Separator --- In New Zealand there are 3 types of tests for COVID-19. High levels of testing is one way we can keep Omicron out of the community. If Omicron spreads, tests will be focussed on people who are: symptomatic vulnerable essential workers close contacts. The most common test is a swab of the back of your nose — this is often called a nasopharyngeal test, or PCR test. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. Another way is to swab the back of your throat and nose. It can be done at community testing centres, hospitals and medical centres. Results can take 2 to 5 days. This testing is available for border workers. Saliva samples can be self-collected and dropped off at a collection point or observed by health care worker. A rapid antigen test (often called a RAT) is generally taken with a front of nose swab. It can be done in hospitals, medical centres, pharmacies and at home. Rapid antigen test results are available much faster than a PCR test — about 15 minutes compared to 2 to 5 days. RATs will be used more widely if Omicron spreads. If you get a positive result, you will need to get a follow-up PCR test immediately from your doctor or community testing centre. Rapid antigen tests are not : as accurate at detecting COVID-19 as nasal and saliva PCR tests used for diagnosis of people with COVID-19 symptoms a replacement for existing nasal and saliva PCR tests mandatory for businesses acceptable for mandatory surveillance testing under the Required Testing Order (RTO) a replacement for vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Free rapid antigen tests are available at selected community pharmacies until 30 June 2022. The tests are available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company, for example Air New Zealand. Find pharmacies offering supervised RATs | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had your vaccination, you should still get tested for COVID-19 if you develop symptoms or if you are subject to regular testing. --- Section Separator --- Types of COVID-19 tests When you should get a test Where to get tested What happens when you get a PCR test
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing What happens when you get a PCR test --- Section Separator --- If you are asked to get a test by a health official or fall under mandatory testing, y ou can get a free PCR test. Everyone can get tested for free — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. Find out when you need a PCR test If possible take your NHI number with you to the testing station. Wear a face mask and scan the QR code. You can take a support person with you. After your test, go straight home and stay home until you have a negative test result. Keep monitoring your symptoms and call Healthline, your doctor or 111 if your symptoms get worse. Make sure you and your whānau have a plan about what you will do if someone gets sick. In most cases, if you get a COVID-19 test, you will need to stay home until you get a negative result. This means you cannot stop at a supermarket or dairy on the way home to pick up essential supplies. You can prepare by making sure you have enough food, medicines and hygiene supplies at home so you can isolate safely. You can get a PCR test at your doctor's practice or a community-based testing centre. Before you go, check the opening hours and whether you need to make a booking. Some testing locations also offer drive-through options. This means you can stay in your car for the test. Where to get a PCR test When you go for a test: wear a face mask scan in using the QR code and, if possible, take your NHI number with you. This is likely to speed up the process. You can find your NHI number on a hospital letter, a prescription or prescription receipt. You can also call the Ministry of Health on 0800 855 066 to find out. You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by your doctor or Healthline that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. If you need to get a PCR test for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There is more than one way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. You can try wriggling your toes as a distraction technique. After your test, follow the advice of your healthcare professional. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should go straight home and stay home until you get a negative test result. Your healthcare provider will let you know if the people you live with also need to isolate. If you need groceries or other essential items, ask whānau, friends or neighbours to drop them off at the front door. Advice on staying home after a COVID-19 test | health.govt.nz (external link) Your health professional will tell you how and when to expect your results. If a result is positive, you will hear back within 48 hours. Negative tests can take a bit longer to return. If you have not received your result after 5 days, please contact your doctor or the testing centre. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will tell you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive You can now see recent COVID-19 test results on My Covid Record. When you log into your account, you can view all the test results you have had in the last 90 days, including the type of test and the date of the result. Please note: If a test comes back positive, there will be a delay of 72 hours before it shows up in your My Covid Record account. This allows time for a health professional to contact you about your test result and provide advice. My Covid Record (external link) If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) If you feel unwell, or are worried about your symptoms, you can: call your doctor or health provider call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 Call 111 if you feel very unwell or if your symptoms get worse. --- Section Separator --- If you are asked to get a test by a health official or fall under mandatory testing, y ou can get a free PCR test. Everyone can get tested for free — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. Find out when you need a PCR test If possible take your NHI number with you to the testing station. Wear a face mask and scan the QR code. You can take a support person with you. After your test, go straight home and stay home until you have a negative test result. Keep monitoring your symptoms and call Healthline, your doctor or 111 if your symptoms get worse. --- Section Separator --- Make sure you and your whānau have a plan about what you will do if someone gets sick. In most cases, if you get a COVID-19 test, you will need to stay home until you get a negative result. This means you cannot stop at a supermarket or dairy on the way home to pick up essential supplies. You can prepare by making sure you have enough food, medicines and hygiene supplies at home so you can isolate safely. --- Section Separator --- You can get a PCR test at your doctor's practice or a community-based testing centre. Before you go, check the opening hours and whether you need to make a booking. Some testing locations also offer drive-through options. This means you can stay in your car for the test. Where to get a PCR test When you go for a test: wear a face mask scan in using the QR code and, if possible, take your NHI number with you. This is likely to speed up the process. You can find your NHI number on a hospital letter, a prescription or prescription receipt. You can also call the Ministry of Health on 0800 855 066 to find out. You can ask someone to help you get to your test and be with you during your test. If you are very unwell and advised by your doctor or Healthline that you need to be assessed or tested at a hospital, you can ask someone to help you get there. If you need someone with you at the hospital, you or your support person should call ahead and discuss this with the doctor or nurse at the hospital. --- Section Separator --- If you need to get a PCR test for COVID-19, a sample is taken from you. There is more than one way to take a sample. The most common way is to swab the back of your nose. A swab is like a small cotton-bud but with a longer stick. For some people this is a tickle, others find it a bit uncomfortable. You can try wriggling your toes as a distraction technique. --- Section Separator --- After your test, follow the advice of your healthcare professional. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you should go straight home and stay home until you get a negative test result. Your healthcare provider will let you know if the people you live with also need to isolate. If you need groceries or other essential items, ask whānau, friends or neighbours to drop them off at the front door. Advice on staying home after a COVID-19 test | health.govt.nz (external link) Your health professional will tell you how and when to expect your results. If a result is positive, you will hear back within 48 hours. Negative tests can take a bit longer to return. If you have not received your result after 5 days, please contact your doctor or the testing centre. If you test positive, the Ministry of Health and your local public health unit will call you to discuss your results. They will tell you what to do next. What to expect if you test positive You can now see recent COVID-19 test results on My Covid Record. When you log into your account, you can view all the test results you have had in the last 90 days, including the type of test and the date of the result. Please note: If a test comes back positive, there will be a delay of 72 hours before it shows up in your My Covid Record account. This allows time for a health professional to contact you about your test result and provide advice. My Covid Record (external link) If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment for you so you can continue to get paid. Who is eligible for the COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment (external link) If you feel unwell, or are worried about your symptoms, you can: call your doctor or health provider call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 Call 111 if you feel very unwell or if your symptoms get worse. --- Section Separator --- Types of COVID-19 tests When you should get a test Where to get tested What happens when you get a PCR test
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing When you should get a test --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 tests are free. You do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. This includes if you: are told to get a test by a health official have symptoms come under mandatory testing, for example, if you work at the border or are a contact of a confirmed case require a test for domestic travel. If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. You may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country or for surveillance testing by the business sector, which is outside the mandatory requirements. Even if you have had your vaccination, you still need to get tested for COVID-19 in the following situations. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test. If you are unsure, a health professional can let you know. Call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. COVID-19 symptoms Where to get tested You may need to get a test depending on what type of contact you are. If you are a Close Contact, you will need to get a test. If you are a Casual Contact, you do not need to get a test unless you develop symptoms. Close Contacts Casual Contacts The Close Contact exemption scheme will help keep critical supply chains running through Omicron. How to apply and the criteria for self-assessment are on the business.govt.nz website: Testing and returning to work during Omicron (external link) Check the locations of interest on the Ministry of Health website and follow the instructions on what to do. Locations of interest in New Zealand — health.govt.nz (external link) If you have been at a location of interest at the date and times specified  and it says to get a test, you must follow this advice. You can call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and isolating. By calling Healthline, people who have been at locations of interest are logged into the contact tracing system. This means you can get your test results back faster. You can also record your visit to a location of interest online. If you record it online, you do not need to call Healthline. Contact tracers will call or email you and let you know what you need to do. Record your visit online (external link) These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) You do not need to get a COVID-19 test, unless you are asked to by public health officials or you develop COVID-19 symptoms. You may need to stay at home while your contact gets a test. Secondary contacts Some transport providers, such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators, may require you to show your My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding. The test must be taken within 72 hours before your journey. Free rapid antigen tests (RATs) are available at selected community pharmacies until 30 June 2022. The tests will be available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are unvaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company. Children under 12 years and 3 months do not need to get tested or have a My Vaccine Pass. You will need to get a follow-up PCR test from your doctor or a community testing centre. Where to get tested You may need a negative COVID-19 test result to travel to New Zealand or other countries. Most travellers to New Zealand must have a negative PCR or RT-PCR test within 48 hours of their scheduled departure of their first international flight. You still need a test even if you have been vaccinated for COVID-19. Learn more about pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Steps to get a pre-departure COVID-19 test If you need to attend a court of law in person and are asymptomatic and unvaccinated, you will need to produce a negative COVID-19 test result. Free supervised rapid antigen tests (RATs) for this purpose are available at selected community pharmacies until 30 June 2022. This will apply to anyone who is unvaccinated and asymptomatic that needs to attend court in person. You will need to provide evidence of a negative RAT within 24 hours of attendance. For example, this applies to: criminal defendants lawyers for criminal defendants (including duty lawyers) summonsed witnesses summonsed jurors prosecution applicants for habeas corpus accredited news media for criminal hearings only members of the public permitted to enter court buildings. More information can be found on Courts of New Zealand website: COVID-19 court protocols | courtsofnz.govt.nz (external link) Some people are required to undergo regular testing due to the risk associated with their work. This includes the risk of getting COVID-19 as well as potentially spreading it to others. For example, healthcare workers and border workers. Your employer will tell you if you need a test. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 tests are free. You do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. This includes if you: are told to get a test by a health official have symptoms come under mandatory testing, for example, if you work at the border or are a contact of a confirmed case require a test for domestic travel. If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. You may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country or for surveillance testing by the business sector, which is outside the mandatory requirements. --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had your vaccination, you still need to get tested for COVID-19 in the following situations. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test. If you are unsure, a health professional can let you know. Call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. COVID-19 symptoms Where to get tested --- Section Separator --- You may need to get a test depending on what type of contact you are. If you are a Close Contact, you will need to get a test. If you are a Casual Contact, you do not need to get a test unless you develop symptoms. Close Contacts Casual Contacts The Close Contact exemption scheme will help keep critical supply chains running through Omicron. How to apply and the criteria for self-assessment are on the business.govt.nz website: Testing and returning to work during Omicron (external link) --- Section Separator --- Check the locations of interest on the Ministry of Health website and follow the instructions on what to do. Locations of interest in New Zealand — health.govt.nz (external link) If you have been at a location of interest at the date and times specified  and it says to get a test, you must follow this advice. You can call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and isolating. By calling Healthline, people who have been at locations of interest are logged into the contact tracing system. This means you can get your test results back faster. You can also record your visit to a location of interest online. If you record it online, you do not need to call Healthline. Contact tracers will call or email you and let you know what you need to do. Record your visit online (external link) These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not need to get a COVID-19 test, unless you are asked to by public health officials or you develop COVID-19 symptoms. You may need to stay at home while your contact gets a test. Secondary contacts --- Section Separator --- Some transport providers, such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators, may require you to show your My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding. The test must be taken within 72 hours before your journey. Free rapid antigen tests (RATs) are available at selected community pharmacies until 30 June 2022. The tests will be available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are unvaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company. Children under 12 years and 3 months do not need to get tested or have a My Vaccine Pass. You will need to get a follow-up PCR test from your doctor or a community testing centre. Where to get tested You may need a negative COVID-19 test result to travel to New Zealand or other countries. Most travellers to New Zealand must have a negative PCR or RT-PCR test within 48 hours of their scheduled departure of their first international flight. You still need a test even if you have been vaccinated for COVID-19. Learn more about pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Steps to get a pre-departure COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- If you need to attend a court of law in person and are asymptomatic and unvaccinated, you will need to produce a negative COVID-19 test result. Free supervised rapid antigen tests (RATs) for this purpose are available at selected community pharmacies until 30 June 2022. This will apply to anyone who is unvaccinated and asymptomatic that needs to attend court in person. You will need to provide evidence of a negative RAT within 24 hours of attendance. For example, this applies to: criminal defendants lawyers for criminal defendants (including duty lawyers) summonsed witnesses summonsed jurors prosecution applicants for habeas corpus accredited news media for criminal hearings only members of the public permitted to enter court buildings. More information can be found on Courts of New Zealand website: COVID-19 court protocols | courtsofnz.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some people are required to undergo regular testing due to the risk associated with their work. This includes the risk of getting COVID-19 as well as potentially spreading it to others. For example, healthcare workers and border workers. Your employer will tell you if you need a test. --- Section Separator --- Types of COVID-19 tests When you should get a test Where to get tested What happens when you get a PCR test
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Where to get tested --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where you need to get a PCR test. PCR tests are the most accurate way of detecting the COVID-19 virus. Find out when you need a PCR test What happens when you get a PCR test Your doctor may offer PCR tests. Call them to find out, and follow their advice. Healthpoint lists testing locations by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Search for a PCR testing location near you (external link) Northland (external link) Auckland (external link) Waitematā (external link) Waikato (external link) Whakatāne, Bay of Plenty, Rotorua and Taupō (external link) Tairāwhiti (Gisborne) (external link) Hawke’s Bay (external link) Taranaki (external link) Whanganui (external link) MidCentral (Ōtaki, Levin, Palmerston North, Feilding and Dannevirke) (external link) Hutt Valley (external link) Wellington and Kāpiti Coast (external link) Nelson-Marlborough (external link) West Coast (external link) Canterbury (external link) South Canterbury (external link) Southern (external link) Free RATs are available at selected community pharmacies until 30 June 2022 for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company, for example Air New Zealand. If you get a positive result, you will need to get a follow-up PCR test from your doctor or community testing centre. Find pharmacies offering supervised RATs | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) If you need a pre-departure test for international travel, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor to check where you can get tested. You can also search online to find pre-departure testing labs in New Zealand. Check their services to make sure they can provide you with your result in time for your flight. Find out more about pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where you need to get a PCR test. PCR tests are the most accurate way of detecting the COVID-19 virus. Find out when you need a PCR test What happens when you get a PCR test Your doctor may offer PCR tests. Call them to find out, and follow their advice. Healthpoint lists testing locations by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Search for a PCR testing location near you (external link) Northland (external link) Auckland (external link) Waitematā (external link) Waikato (external link) Whakatāne, Bay of Plenty, Rotorua and Taupō (external link) Tairāwhiti (Gisborne) (external link) Hawke’s Bay (external link) Taranaki (external link) Whanganui (external link) MidCentral (Ōtaki, Levin, Palmerston North, Feilding and Dannevirke) (external link) Hutt Valley (external link) Wellington and Kāpiti Coast (external link) Nelson-Marlborough (external link) West Coast (external link) Canterbury (external link) South Canterbury (external link) Southern (external link) --- Section Separator --- Free RATs are available at selected community pharmacies until 30 June 2022 for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company, for example Air New Zealand. If you get a positive result, you will need to get a follow-up PCR test from your doctor or community testing centre. Find pharmacies offering supervised RATs | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need a pre-departure test for international travel, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor to check where you can get tested. You can also search online to find pre-departure testing labs in New Zealand. Check their services to make sure they can provide you with your result in time for your flight. --- Section Separator --- Find out more about pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Types of COVID-19 tests When you should get a test Where to get tested What happens when you get a PCR test
Home Testing and tracing Locations of interest Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. You may be interested in List of locations of interest What is a Section 70 If your business is a location of interest Map of locations of interest Record your location of interest visit online --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 has visited. You are a contact if you have been at a location of interest at the specified time. Check the locations of interest and follow the health advice of the Ministry of Health. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have been at any location of interest at the date and times specified you must follow the health instructions next to the location on the Ministry of Health website. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for further advice on testing and isolating. Or record your visit to a location of interest online. Record your visit online (external link) If you record your visit online, you do not need to call Healthline. Contact tracers will call or email you and let you know what you need to do. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) Close Contacts Casual and Casual Plus Contacts --- Section Separator --- Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 gives special powers to a medical officer of health to prevent the outbreak or spread of any infectious disease. A Section 70 order is issued to make sure you understand it is very important that you follow the advice given by public health units. A Section 70 order allows a medical officer of health to require those in the order to: meet public health requirements undergo testing isolate until they get a test result. People must follow the order immediately. Find out more about Section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Exposure events sometimes do not need to be made public, because everybody there is known and can be followed up. There are many more exposure events than there are locations of interest, and not all exposure events become locations of interest. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has guidance to support New Zealand businesses that have been identified as a location of interest after a visit by a confirmed or probable COVID-19 case. In most cases, a public health official will call and talk you through what this means for your business. However, there may be some occasions, for example outside business hours, when it may not be possible to contact you immediately. Guidance for businesses | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. What you need to know Businesses and workplaces at Red When you must wear a mask Public and private gatherings at Red Cafes and restaurants at Red --- Section Separator --- Find out what traffic light settings are in place around New Zealand. Traffic light map --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
Home Traffic lights COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) New Zealand is in the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights. This new approach to COVID-19 will introduce more freedoms for vaccinated New Zealanders. --- Section Separator --- The framework will continue to protect New Zealanders, while also providing more certainty and new opportunities. It minimises the impact and provides protection from COVID-19 through 3 settings - Green, Orange and Red. Minimisation means we are aiming to keep the spread of COVID-19 and hospitilisations at as low a level as possible. Outbreaks will be contained and controlled, and if practical, stamped out. There will likely be some level of cases in the community on an ongoing basis. Protection means that we will protect people from the virus, with vaccination, infection prevention and control, and general public health measures (for example contact tracing, case management and testing). Response will also focus on minimising significant health impacts through treatment and support. We will also protect people’s health, by ensuring we are not letting cases go to the point where the impacts have flow-on effects to impact other health services. The framework is intended to give as much certainty and stability as possible for people and businesses, reducing the need for widespread lockdowns. --- Section Separator --- A high vaccination rate is a key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19. Getting vaccinated reduces the likeliness of getting really sick, going to hospital or passing COVID-19 on to others. There are places where vaccination for workers is required, for example within the border, health, disability, education sectors, and at hospitality, events, gyms and close-proximity businesses. It is also required for businesses that are using My Vaccine Pass for their customers. The vaccination assessment tool is a legal framework to help businesses make decisions about vaccinations in the workplace. My Vaccine Pass is the official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use in Aotearoa New Zealand. Specified limits are based on 1 metre distancing, which means 1 metre square of space for each person (the number of people is limited by the space available). It does not mean people must remain 1 metre apart from others. Capacity limits include everyone in a defined space, excluding workers (paid and unpaid). A group of people that has people with and without My Vaccine Pass (excluding children), must follow the lower capacity limit specified for no My Vaccine Pass. QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport to enable the use of the NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Under the framework localised lockdowns and protections can be used to control high rates of transmission. The restrictions implemented will consider specific circumstances and the nature of the public health response. They could include: stay at home orders closure of premises, for example schools and retail restrictions on gatherings restrictions on movement in and out of the lockdown area. If your business, service, or activity is not captured specifically in the Framework you must follow the public health measures specified in the general settings. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Protection Framework summary table [PDF, 69 KB] COVID-19 Protection Framework detailed table [PDF, 225 KB]
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Green with no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Workplaces are open at Green. Some jobs require staff to be vaccinated. These include: border and managed isolation and quarantine workers health and disability workers education sector workers prison workers New Zealand Police (sworn members, recruits and authorised officers) New Zealand Defence Force (Armed Forces and civilian staff). Workers in businesses covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate need to be vaccinated. This applies to food and drink services (excluding businesses that operate solely as takeaways), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. Workers in these businesses must be fully vaccinated, even if the business chooses not to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a business is only offering takeaway food and drink, then workers do not need to be vaccinated. Vaccine information for businesses My Vaccine Pass mandate | business.govt.nz (external link) Vaccination assessment tool | business.govt.nz (external link) Guidance for employers and employees | employment.govt.nz (external link) Retail businesses and workplaces can choose whether they require My Vaccine Pass for customers and visitors. If they do not, they may have to follow some restrictions. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. They can also switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring My Vaccine Pass. This could happen in places such as cafes where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a business chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms must be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, must be cleaned between groups everyone, both staff and visitors, must be told what the vaccine pass requirements are. Advice for businesses on checking and verifying My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you enter a business as a visitor or customer, follow the vaccine pass requirements at the venue. You may be required to show your My Vaccine Pass to access the service. Shopping at Green Close-proximity businesses at Green Hospitality at Green Scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in the community. --- Section Separator --- If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, or you are self-isolating because you have tested positive for COVID-19, your employer can apply for financial support for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. COVID-19 support for employers | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information: Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Education Early learning, schools and kura Early learning services, schools and kura are open at Green for all tamariki (children). --- Section Separator --- At Green, early learning centres, kōhanga reo, schools and kura can open with public health measures in place, for example, extra cleaning and keeping records of visitors to help with contact tracing. School events or activities like performances, cultural events, camps, sports practices, and interschool events can go ahead. At Green, playgroups can open if parents and staff are fully vaccinated. Parents and staff will be required to show their My Vaccine Pass when they are on site. If a playgroup chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, services will be restricted. Staff, visitors and parents and caregivers must stay 1 metre apart. Staff working at the playgroup must wear a face mask. Playgroups that operate on a school or early learning site or are run by a home-based childcare provider must be vaccinated under the vaccination order and keep a vaccine register. Some OSCAR staff must be fully vaccinated. If staff are not fully vaccinated, it is up to the OSCAR programme provider to decide if they want to continue operating at Green, depending on public health advice. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are encouraged for all students indoors at school — but they are not a requirement. Face masks are also encouraged when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We encourage parents, caregivers and other adult visitors to wear a face mask when visiting early childhood centres, schools and kura. Wearing a face mask --- Section Separator --- Children and parents/caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: licensed early childhood education services and registered primary and secondary schools, including private providers school hostels school transport services for all students out of school care and recreation (OSCAR) programmes secondary students who attend a tertiary organisation for their learning. At education sites, some people must be fully vaccinated to have contact with children and students. This includes: teachers staff home-based educators every person aged 12 years and 3 months and over in the home where licensed home-based education and care takes place for children under 6 years old support people in schools and early learning centres, including volunteers teacher aides administration and maintenance staff contractors. An on-site register must be kept. Education sector vaccinations --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, they will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) Advice for schools and kura with a confirmed case of COVID-19 | education.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Anyone waiting for COVID-19 test results or required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Green --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for schools and kura | education.govt.nz. (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Education Tertiary education Students can attend tertiary education in person at Green. --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education facilities can open, with public health measures, such as wearing face masks encouraged indoors. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials, and meetings in person. Your tertiary provider may choose to require My Vaccine Pass for you to attend in-person learning (unless an exemption applies). Check with your provider about their requirements. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation can open. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass for residents and staff. Check with your provider about their requirements. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Accommodation at Green Travel at Green --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. You must wear one on flights at Green. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Anyone waiting for COVID-19 test results or required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education providers and students can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary and international sector | education.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Events and public facilities Events Indoor and outdoor events can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Examples are: auctions cinemas stadiums concert venues conferences commercial recreational activities sporting events private galleries Advice on community sporting events If an event organiser chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass at the venue. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. This applies to events held at both indoor and outdoor venues. You can serve food and drink, and attendees do not need to be seated at table to eat or drink. You can travel anywhere to attend an event. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you will not be allowed to attend. If an event organiser chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, they can only have up to 100 people in a single defined space. Attendees must keep 1 metre apart. This applies to both indoor and outdoor events. If an event organiser is open to people with and without My Vaccine Pass, everyone must be seated at a table to eat and drink. You can move around when not eating or drinking. Customers at a cinema, theatre or stadium do not have to be seated at a table and are able to eat drink from their seats. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community gatherings must follow the gathering guidelines. They are gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration. Examples are: street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs. Gatherings at Green --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business or event. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Events and public facilities Public facilities Public facilities can open at Green with no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- All public facilities can open at Green. Examples of public facilities include: libraries public galleries museums zoos swimming pools, and recreation centres. Some public facilities may choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show your My Vaccine Pass at the venue. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Gatherings and visits Funerals and tangihanga Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. --- Section Separator --- Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Green. It is up to the staff and the whānau or family to agree if the funeral or tangihanga is only open to people with My Vaccine Pass or to a mix of people with or without My Vaccine Pass. If everyone has My Vaccine Pass, there is no limit to the number of people who can attend, both indoors and outdoors. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes marae churches, mosques and other faith-based places of worship hired venues or facilities private homes. You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga or burial. Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). There is no limit to how many people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you are fully vaccinated. This can include: washing dressing shrouding other preparations for cremation or burial. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Organisers of the funeral or tangihanga must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- If staff and whānau choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, funerals and tangihanga are limited to 100 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children under 12, but not staff. You can serve food and drink. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements — they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. Marae can choose whether to allow people without My Vaccine Pass to attend a tangihanga. If people without My Vaccine Pass are allowed, tangihanga are limited to 100 people . Multiple groups of 100 people can attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae can also choose to switch between allowing people with and without My Vaccine Pass to attend. Groups cannot be on the marae at the same time. For example, 100 people who do not have My Vaccine Pass could attend a tangihanga in the morning. After cleaning, another group of 100 people with My Vaccine Pass could attend the tangihanga later in the day. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Green Up to 100 people can view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). The limit can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff who are attending. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Organisers of the funeral or tangihanga must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility, and all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, places of worship or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both workers and visitors, must be told what the My Vaccine Pass requirements are — whether My Vaccine Pass is or is not required. --- Section Separator --- There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: not kiss or touch the body wash your hands thoroughly after the viewing physically distance from others of at least 1 metre. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Gatherings and visits Marae at Green — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Marae can open at kākāriki (green) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- At K ākāriki, gatherings at marae can go ahead. It is up to the leaders of the marae to decide whether: they want to allow gatherings people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass can use the marae or attend gatherings manuhiri (visitors to the marae) need to wear a face mask Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. --- Section Separator --- If a marae chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass at the marae. There is no limit to the number of people who can be on a marae at a time. In practice this might look like 100 people in the wharenui, 100 people in the wharekai, 20 people on the ātea and 80 people waiting to be welcomed on. Whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the number limits on marae. Tamariki under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass, but they are included in number counts where restrictions apply. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. Public and private gatherings at Green Funerals and tangihanga at Green If a marae chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, they must check vaccine passes for everyone on the marae — this can be either sighting the My Vaccine Pass, or verifying it with an app. The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that marae can use to verify My Vaccine Passes. At large gatherings, marae can choose to spot check vaccine passes if verifying every My Vaccine Pass is difficult. Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) It is up to manuhiri to present their My Vaccine Pass on entry. Marae are not required to check ID, but they can request it. Marae should make reasonable efforts to ID tamariki under 12 years and 3 months. This might include asking tamariki their age, date of birth or year at school. When you are ready to check My Vaccine Pass for your manuhiri, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters --- Section Separator --- If a marae chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, there can be up to 100 people on the marae at a time — as long as groups who are fully vaccinated do not mix. In practice this might look like 50 people in the wharenui, 25 people in the wharekai including ringawera and 25 people on the ātea. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. --- Section Separator --- You can serve kai. Decisions about how to serve kai will be made by Marae Kōmiti  — marae may choose to continue using options like takeaway lunches or eating outside, particularly if gatherings are a mixture of people with or without My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Overnight stays are permitted on marae. The same rules apply as day time visits. --- Section Separator --- Marae can choose to require vaccine passes or not. You cannot change mid-gathering. If any member of the whānau pani, paepae, taumata or ringawera is not fully vaccinated, gathering restrictions will apply as if My Vaccine Pass is not being used. If a marae chooses to allow people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass to attend gatherings, marae must make sure: there is no intermingling of ope rooms are cleaned in between groups whānau pani, paepae, taumata, ringawera and manuhiri are told whether they are attending a gathering of people with My Vaccine Passes or a whether it is for people with My Vaccine Pass, or a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Marae often have large groups of people visiting and gathering together. There are some simple things marae can do to keep whānau safe: Display your NZ COVID Tracer QR code and encourage manuhiri to scan in. Clean surfaces and rooms in between groups. Ask people with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay home. Modify tikanga that involves close contact — for example hongi and harirū.
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings At Green, you can have friends and whānau visit your house, and host parties and gatherings. --- Section Separator --- Under the traffic light system, household bubbles do not exist. Examples of gatherings that can go ahead at Green include: catching up with friends and whānau weddings and civil union ceremonies most faith-based gatherings get-togethers and parties at your home club functions social sports street parades free public concerts in a park community fair funerals and tangihanga most gatherings at marae. Visiting friends and whānau at Green Funerals and tangihanga at Green Gatherings at a marae at Green Community and social sport at Green --- Section Separator --- If a gathering chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes workers. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. This applies to gatherings at your home, and gatherings at other venues. This also applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. --- Section Separator --- If a venue for a gathering chooses not to operate with vaccine pass requirements: At a gathering at your home, there can be up to 100 people . At gatherings held at other venues, there can be up to 100 people based on 1-metre physical distancing in a single defined space at the venue at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. It includes children under 12, but does not include staff. --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering, with no extra requirements. If your gathering is at a hospitality venue, and you have hired the entire venue for your gathering, there are no extra requirements for serving food and drink. If you are unsure about what the requirements for your group might be, talk to the hospitality business to clarify. Advice for hospitality venues at Green --- Section Separator --- Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, places of worship or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both workers and visitors, must be told what the My Vaccine Pass requirements are — whether My Vaccine Pass is or is not required. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Gatherings and visits Visiting friends and whānau You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Green. --- Section Separator --- Household bubbles do not exist under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights). You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Examples include: catching up with friends and whānau at their home or your home parties and other gatherings at their home or your home. You and your guests do not need to wear face masks. Learn more about private gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep their staff and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- There are currently no face-to-face visits allowed for private and legal visitors. When visits start again, all private visitors are required to be fully vaccinated. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Hospitality venues Hospitality venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants (excluding takeaway-only businesses) and nightclubs, can open at Green with no restrictions if they follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a hospitality venue chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes delivery drivers, and people who are picking up their own takeaway orders. There are no limits on the number of people you can drink or dine with. You do not have to be seated to be served. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Food and beverage services that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Green Businesses that offer food and drink on site, as well as a takeaway option for customers without My Vaccine Pass, will need to operate as a hospitality venue. At these businesses, if you do not have My Vaccine Pass you must collect your takeaways in a contactless way, and must not go inside. You must scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If a hospitality venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements they must follow these restrictions. There can be up to 100 people based on 1-metre distancing , in a single defined space at the venue at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children, but not staff. You will have to be seated and separated from other groups. This means you must remain seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your meal. Dance floors are closed. Food and beverage services that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Green You must scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Moving, buying and selling your home You can move house and buy or sell your home at Green. --- Section Separator --- You can move house at Green. You can use a moving company to relocate. If you are travelling between regions that are at different settings, follow the travel requirements. Travel at Green --- Section Separator --- You can buy or sell your home at Green. You can hold and attend open homes, but there may be restrictions if My Vaccine Pass is not used. You can carry out property inspections. If you are a property manager or landlord, you should not visit your tenant's home if they are sick or are self-isolating. Advice for landlords and tenants | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) If you are travelling between regions that are at different settings to view properties, follow travel advice. Travel at Green If an open home or auction chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there, including at open homes or auctions. There are no limits on the number of people who can attend. If an open home or auction chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 100 people in a single defined space. Everyone attending needs to keep 1 metre apart. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies can find more detailed information, including advice for holding open homes and auctions. Services guidelines under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Guidelines for real estate activities at Red | rea.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Moving companies can find more information on business.govt.nz Advice for services | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Shopping and services Access to basic needs services Everyone is entitled to access services that provide basic needs, such as food, healthcare and public transport. --- Section Separator --- You will not be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass to access these places and services: supermarkets dairies food banks pharmacies petrol stations essential health and disability services, including primary care services, specialist clinics, laboratories and imaging services, public and private hospitals, maternity care, hospice services, oral healthcare services, mental health care services, ambulances and emergency care aged residential care services if you are a resident public housing and social housing emergency accommodation for people in need. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass to use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. Some transport providers — such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators — may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. Children, students, their parents or caregivers will not be asked to provide proof of vaccination to access these places: early childhood education and care centres registered schools secondary schools school transport services out of school care and recreation programmes. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Retail advice under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz. (external link) (external link) Health providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz. Advice for health providers under the COVID-10 Protection Framework | health.govt.nz. (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Shopping and services Close-proximity businesses Close-proximity businesses can open at Green, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Examples of close-proximity businesses include: barbers hairdressers beauty salons tattoo parlours driving instructors massage therapists. --- Section Separator --- If a close-proximity business chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You must scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If a close-proximity business chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, services will be restricted. Everyone must stay 1 metre apart except for when close physical contact is needed to provide the service. Staff must wear face masks. Customers and clients are encouraged to wear a face mask. You must scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Close-proximity businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Close-proximity business advice | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Shopping and services Shopping Shops and retail outlets can open at Green with no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- All shops and services, including outdoor markets, banks and takeaway-only businesses, can operate at Green. Shops can choose whether they operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show your My Vaccine Pass. There are no limits on the number of people that can be inside. Everyone will always be able to access essential services like food, regardless of their vaccination status. Access to basic need services If a retail shop provides a close-proximity service, like make-up application or clothes fittings, then they need to follow advice for close-proximity businesses. The rest of the store only needs to follow the retail rules. Close-proximity businesses at Green Scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Advice for retailers | business.govt.nz. (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Shopping and services Trades and home services You can have tradespeople and home services, such as cleaners, inside your home at Green. --- Section Separator --- You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Green. Examples of trades and home services are: getting home appliances fixed, like your fridge utility services, like gas and power cleaning for people who need assistance because of sickness or disability gardening services getting internet or other services installed or fixed locksmiths vet and pest management services. Tradespeople should keep a record of their visit to support contact tracing. This includes recording: the date and time they arrive and leave a customer's home the customer's contact details. --- Section Separator --- Do not invite tradespeople or home service providers into your home if you: have been told to self-isolate are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test are unwell What to do if you are told to self-isolate Stay home if you are sick --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Tradespeople and businesses that provide home services can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Sport and recreation Recreation Indoor recreation facilities can open at Green with restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- At Green, you can do all your usual recreation activites. Indoor recreation facilities can open at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. You can travel anywhere for recreation — including overnight camping trips and trips to your bach or holiday home. --- Section Separator --- Gyms and indoor recreation facilities such as dance studios, yoga studios, health clubs, bowling alleys and ice skating rinks can open. If the facility chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There are no limits on the number of people that can be inside. If the facility chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, they are limited to 100 people, based on 1-metre distancing . This can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. Advice for gyms and indoor recreation facilities | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor swimming pools, saunas and steam rooms can open with no limits with My Vaccine Pass requirements. Learn to swim classes can continue. If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public swimming pools are not required to ask for your My Vaccine Pass. Public facilities at Green If you want to go to a private swimming pool that chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There is no limit to the number of people who can be present. Find out how to get My Vaccine Pass If a private swimming pool chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, they are limited to 100 people . This can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Parks, playgrounds, sports grounds and other outdoor recreation facilities such as skate parks can open to everyone. You can use playground equipment and benches in public spaces. Private clubs such as golf or tennis clubs can choose to restrict their facilities to vaccinated people only. Contact your local club to find out how they are operating. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead at Green. If the business organising the class chooses to f ollow vaccine pass requirements, you must show your My Vaccine Pass to participate. There are no limits on the number of people who can attend. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you will not be allowed to participate. Find out how to get My Vaccine Pass If the business organising the class chooses not to f ollow vaccine pass requirements, classes are limited to 100 people . They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Entertainment, recreation and exercise guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Sport and recreation Sport You can attend sports events and play sport at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community sport, like organised social touch rugby and group training sessions, can go ahead. There are no requirements for physical distancing while playing or watching sport. If the organiser chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass. There are no limits to the number of people who can participate or attend as spectators. If the organiser chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, community sports are limited to 100 people in a single defined space at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. If you are playing at a large sportsground with multiple fields, you can have: multiple groups of spectators — as long as they are 2 metres from other groups, and multiple games running at once — as long as each group of players is 2 metres away from other groups. If you are playing in or watching sport at a controlled-access event, for example, an athletics competition at a stadium with controlled entry, then you must follow the rules for events. Events at Green --- Section Separator --- Organised indoor sport, for example at an arena, can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. This includes playing social sport with friends. If you are playing or watching sport at a venue that chooses to check vaccine passes, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass. There are no limits on the number of people who can participate, or attend as spectators. We encourage you to wear a face mask when you are not playing. If the indoor sport venue chooses not to check vaccine passes, indoor sports are limited to 100 people in a single defined space at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass, and includes both participants and spectators. We encourage you to wear a face mask when you are not playing. If you are playing or watching sport at a controlled-access event, for example, a netball game that you need to buy tickets for, then you must follow the rules for events. Events at Green --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Sports clubs can find more detailed information on sportnz.org.nz: COVID-19 overview | sportnz.org.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Travel and accommodation You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Green. --- Section Separator --- You can travel at Green, but you must wear a face mask on flights. Accommodation can open at Green with no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can travel at Green, but you must wear a face mask on flights. Accommodation can open at Green with no restrictions.
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Travel and accommodation Accommodation Accommodation can open at Green with no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- All accommodation services can open. This includes: hotels and motels boarding houses campgrounds backpackers seasonal worker accommodation AirBnB properties tertiary accommodation Accomodation providers can open to people with and without a My Vaccine Pass, with no restrictions. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an accommodation facility, follow the relevant advice: Events at Green Gatherings at Green Everyone over the age of 12 must have a My Vaccine Pass to stay in a DOC hut or campsite. Visitors will be asked about their vaccination status when they book a DOC hut or campsite. Hut wardens may also carry out spot checks to make sure everyone has My Vaccine Pass. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you can still use the DOC tracks and toilets, but you will not be allowed to stay overnight. Staying in a DOC hut or campsite | doc.govt.nz (external link) Cafes, bars and restaurants inside accomodation venues should follow the rules for hospitality businesses. Hospitality venues at Green --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Travel and accommodation Travel You can travel anywhere at Green, but you must wear a face mask on flights. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at any traffic light setting. Do not travel if you are unwell. Some transport providers may ask you to show your My Vaccine Pass or provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test. Check with the operator before travelling. If you are travelling into a different setting area, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. There are no physical distancing requirements on transport services or in airports, train stations or bus terminals. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to show a vaccine pass to use public transport, as these services are needed to access services for basic needs such as food and healthcare. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, at bus stops or train stations. You are not required to wear a face mask on public transport. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Some transport providers, such as Air New Zealand, KiwiRail and Cook Strait ferry operators, may require you to show a vaccine pass or negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. The test must be taken within 72 hours before your journey. Check with the operator what its My Vaccine Pass or testing requirements are before you travel. Free rapid antigen tests will be available at community pharmacies until 30 June 2022. The tests will be available for travellers who are: over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and are from any part of New Zealand, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company. Find a community pharmacy or testing centre (external link) You must wear a face mask on flights. We encourage you to wear a face mask in the terminal. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 while you are away from home, you and the people you are travelling with will need to isolate. You can only return home if you have a private vehicle, and you do not need to use public transport — such as a ferry — to get home. Make sure you have a plan in case this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- If you have been told to self-isolate because of COVID-19, you must not travel. What to do if you are told to self-isolate If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, you must not travel. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Transport operators can find more information: Advice for transport operators about COVID-19 Protection Framework | transport.govt.nz (external link) Advice for transport, freight and logistics | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Orange, people can continue to do everyday activities. There are restrictions to limit the spread of the virus and protect vulnerable people. But you can go to work, school, gyms, places of worship, restaurants, and many more places. Most businesses can open with no restrictions on numbers if they choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, and only allow people with My Vaccine Pass to enter. If they choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there will be limits on the number of people who can be in a venue at one time. --- Section Separator --- You will be legally required to provide your My Vaccine Pass to enter places that have vaccination requirements in place under the traffic lights. This may include hospitality venues, events, gatherings and gyms. You cannot be asked to provide your My Vaccine Pass to access basic needs services, such as supermarkets, public transport, and essential health care. My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, marae and sport locations, can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange with some restrictions. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange, with restrictions. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, marae and sport locations, can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange with some restrictions. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange, with restrictions. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Workplaces are open at Orange. Employees should talk to their employers about working at Orange. Most businesses and workplaces can choose whether they check My Vaccine Pass for customers and visitors. If they do not, they may have to follow some restrictions. They can also switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring My Vaccine Pass. This could happen in places such as funeral homes where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a business chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms must be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, must be cleaned between groups everyone, both staff and visitors, must be told what the vaccine pass requirements are—whether it is for people with My Vaccine Pass, or a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. Advice for businesses on checking and verifying My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate need to be vaccinated. This applies to food and drink services (excluding takeaway-only businesses), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. Workers in these businesses must be fully vaccinated, even if the business chooses not to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a business is only offering takeaway food and drink, then workers do not need to be vaccinated. Vaccine information for businesses If you are a business owner or manager, now is the time to start thinking about what steps you can take to protect your staff and customers, if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step by step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan for your business. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you enter a business as a visitor or customer, follow the My Vaccine Pass requirements at the venue. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass, either by looking at it, or scanning the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Businesses that are subject to My Vaccine Pass requirements are expected to check My Vaccine Pass for people on their premises, including workers. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated Shopping at Orange Close-proximity businesses at Orange Hospitality at Orange Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face mask: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operate by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies public-facing workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face mask whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face masks. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. COVID-19 support for employers | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information: Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Education Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. --- Section Separator --- Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Orange, and must follow some public health measures. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Orange, and must follow some public health measures. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Orange.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Education Early learning and schools Children can attend early learning services, playgroups and schools at Orange, and must follow some public health measures. --- Section Separator --- Certified playgroups can open with My Vaccine Pass requirements, or by following the rules for close-proximity businesses. That means you must show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you should not enter the venue as you are not allowed to be there. Playgroups that operate on a school or early learning site or are run by a home-based childcare provider must be vaccinated under the vaccination order and keep a vaccine register. My Vaccine Pass Get Vaccinated Close-proximity businesses --- Section Separator --- All licensed early learning services can open with public health measures in places. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face masks on site. Parents and visitors are encouraged to maintain 1-metre distancing from other adults while on site, for example to settle your child, or to view a service. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are encouraged, but not required, when inside at school. All ākonga aged 12 and up must wear face masks on public transport and school transport. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face masks on site. You do not need to wear a face mask when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We strongly encourage you to. A small number of staff, teachers and students are able to apply for an exemption. Wearing a face mask --- Section Separator --- Children and parents/caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: licensed early childhood education services and registered primary and secondary schools, including private providers school hostels school transport services for all students out of school care and recreation (OSCAR) programmes secondary students who attend a tertiary organisation for their learning. At education sites, some people must be fully vaccinated to have contact with children and students. This includes: teachers staff home-based educators every person aged 12 years and 3 months and over in the home where licensed home-based education and care takes place for children under 6 years old support people in schools and early learning centres, including volunteers teacher aides administration and maintenance staff contractors. An on-site register must be kept. Education sector vaccinations --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, they will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) Advice for schools and kura with a confirmed case of COVID-19 | education.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Anyone waiting for COVID-19 test results or required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students are encouraged to wear face masks in communal areas, and keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Orange --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for schools and kura | education.govt.nz. (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Education Tertiary education Students can attend tertiary education in person at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education facilities can open, with public health measures, such as wearing face masks strongly recommended. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials, and meetings in person. Your tertiary provider may choose to require My Vaccine Pass for you to attend in-person learning (unless an exemption applies). Check with your provider about their requirements. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Anyone waiting for COVID-19 test results or required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation can open. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass for residents and staff. Check with your provider about their requirements. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Orange --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccinations are free. If you need help with costs to get to a vaccination centre, talk to StudyLink about how they can help you. COVID-19 vaccination travel | studylink.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education providers and students can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary and international sector | education.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Events and public facilities Events Events can go ahead at Orange, although some may have restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Orange with My Vaccine Pass. Examples are: auctions cinemas concert venues conferences commercial recreational activities private galleries sporting events stadiums. If an event organiser chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. Events cannot go ahead if My Vaccine Pass requirements are not followed. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration must follow the rules for gatherings. Examples are: street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs. Gatherings at Orange --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business or event. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Events and public facilities Public facilities Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Orange with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can open, with capacity limits are based on 1-metre distancing . Examples of public facilities include: libraries public galleries museums zoos swimming pools recreation centres. Some public facilities may choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show My Vaccine Pass at the facilities. Check before you go. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at public facilities, excluding swimming pools. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can find more information at business.govt.nz. Public facilities guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Local government can find more information at dia.govt.nz. COVID-19 Local Government Response Update | dia.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings and visits Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. --- Section Separator --- Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Orange. It is up to the staff and the whānau or family to agree if the funeral or tangihanga is only open to people with My Vaccine Pass or to a mix of people with or without My Vaccine Pass. If everyone has My Vaccine Pass, there is no limit to the number of people who can attend, both indoors and outdoors. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes marae churches, mosques and other faith-based places of worship hired venues or facilities private homes. You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga or burial. You can serve food and drink. Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku. Up to 100 people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone has My Vaccine Pass. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you have My Vaccine Pass. This can include: washing dressing shrouding other preparations for cremation or burial. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If a venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, funerals and tangihanga are limited to 50 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children under 12, but not staff. You can serve food and drink. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements — they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. Marae can choose whether to allow people without My Vaccine Pass to attend a tangihanga. If people without My Vaccine Pass are allowed, tangihanga are limited to 50 people . Multiple groups of 50 people can attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae can also choose to switch between allowing people with and without My Vaccine Pass to attend. Groups cannot be on the marae at the same time. For example, 50 people who do not have My Vaccine Pass could attend a tangihanga in the morning. After cleaning, a group of 100 people with My Vaccine Pass could attend the tangihanga later in the day. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Orange Up to 50 people can view the tūpāpaku. The limit can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff who are attending. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility, and all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: not kiss or touch the body wash your hands thoroughly after the viewing physically distance from others of at least 1 metre. --- Section Separator --- Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face masks. We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave your home. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, places of worship or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both workers and visitors, must be told what the My Vaccine Pass requirements are — whether My Vaccine Pass is or is not required. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings and visits Marae at Orange — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Marae can open at Karaka (Orange) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- At Karaka, gatherings at marae can go ahead. It is up to the leaders of the marae to decide whether: they want to allow gatherings people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass can use the marae or attend gatherings manuhiri (visitors to the marae) need to wear a face mask. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. Workers and volunteers at marae must wear face masks. --- Section Separator --- If a marae chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass at the marae. There is no limit to the number of people who can be on a marae at a time. Tamariki under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. Public and private gatherings at Orange Funerals and tangihanga at Orange If a marae chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, they must check vaccine passes for everyone on the marae. The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that marae can use to verify My Vaccine Passes. At large gatherings, marae must check all vaccine passes but can choose to verify every few passes if verifying every My Vaccine Pass is difficult. Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) It is up to manuhiri to present their My Vaccine Pass on entry. Marae are not required to check ID, but they can request it. Marae should make reasonable efforts to ID tamariki under 12 years and 3 months. This might include asking tamariki their age, date of birth or year at school. When you are ready to check My Vaccine Pass for your manuhiri, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters --- Section Separator --- If a marae chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, there can be up to 50 people in a single defined space on the marae at a time. These 50 people can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. Whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the number limits on marae. The limit also includes tamariki under the age of 12 years and 3 months. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. --- Section Separator --- You can serve kai. Decisions about how to serve kai will be made by Marae Kōmiti  — marae may choose to continue using options like takeaway lunches or eating outside, particularly if gatherings are a mixture of vaccinated and non-vaccinated people. People serving or handling kai must wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- Overnight stays are permitted on marae. The same rules apply as day time visits. --- Section Separator --- Marae can choose to require vaccine passes or not. You cannot change mid-gathering. If any member of the whānau pani, paepae, taumata or ringawera is not fully vaccinated, gathering restrictions will apply as if My Vaccine Pass is not being used. If a marae chooses to allow people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass to attend gatherings, marae must make sure: there is no intermingling of ope rooms are cleaned in between groups whānau pani, paepae, taumata, ringawera and manuhiri are told whether they are attending a gathering of people with My Vaccine Passes or a whether it is for people with My Vaccine Pass, or a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Marae often have large groups of people visiting and gathering together. There are some simple things marae can do to keep whānau safe: Display your NZ COVID Tracer QR code and encourage manuhiri to scan in. Clean surfaces and rooms in between groups. Ask people with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay home. Modify tikanga that involves close contact — for example hongi and harirū.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings You can have a gathering at Orange, like meeting friends, holding a wedding and attending places of worship, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can gather with anyone at Orange, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. Under the traffic light system, household bubbles do not exist. Examples of gatherings that can go ahead at Orange include: catching up with friends and whānau weddings and civil union ceremonies most faith-based gatherings get-togethers and parties at your home or private dwelling club functions social sports street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs funerals and tangihanga most gatherings at marae. More information about funerals and tangihanga at Orange More information about marae at Orange --- Section Separator --- If a gathering chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes workers. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. There is no limit to how many people can be at the venue. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If a venue for a gathering chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements: At a gathering at your home, there can be up to 50 people . At gatherings held at other venues, there can be up to 50 people based on 1-metre physical distancing in a single defined space at the venue at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. The limit includes children. It does not include staff. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Advice for faith-based gatherings --- Section Separator --- Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, places of worship or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both workers and visitors, must be told what the My Vaccine Pass requirements are — whether My Vaccine Pass is or is not required. --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering. If you have exclusive use of a hospitality venue for your gathering, you do not need to follow the hospitality rules for the service of food and drink. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face mask: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operate by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies public-facing workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face mask whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face masks. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings and visits Visiting friends and whānau You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights), household bubbles do not exist. Examples include: catching up with friends and whānau at their home or your home parties and other gatherings at their home or your home. Follow the advice for private gatherings. Private gatherings at Orange --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep workers and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for health professionals | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are currently no face-to-face visits allowed for private and legal visitors. When visits start again, all private visitors are required to be fully vaccinated. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Hospitality venues Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants (excluding takeaway-only businesses) and nightclubs, can open at Orange with no restrictions if they follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a hospitality venue chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes delivery drivers, and people who are picking up their own takeaway orders. There are no limits on the number of people who can be at the venue. You do not have to be seated to be served. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Food and beverage services that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Orange Businesses that offer food and drink on site, as well as a takeaway option for customers without My Vaccine Pass, will need to operate as a hospitality venue. At these businesses, if you do not have My Vaccine Pass you must collect your takeaways in a contactless way, and must not go inside. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If a hospitality venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, it can open for takeaway only and should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Orange Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face mask: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operate by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies public-facing workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face mask whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face masks. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Moving, buying and selling your home You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can move house at Orange. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel between regions that are at different settings. Travel advice --- Section Separator --- You can buy or sell a property at Orange. You can hold and attend open homes. You can carry out property inspections. Advice for landlords and tenants | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) During open homes and property inspections, we encourage you to keep 1 metre apart from other people at the property. There are no limits to the number of people who can attend. You can travel between regions that are at different settings. Travel advice Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies can find more detailed information, including advice for holding open homes and auctions. Services guidelines under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Guidelines for real estate activities at Red | rea.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Moving companies can find more information on business.govt.nz Advice for services | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Shopping and services Access to basic needs Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. --- Section Separator --- You will not be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass to access these places and services: supermarkets dairies food banks pharmacies petrol stations essential health and disability services, including primary care services, specialist clinics, laboratories and imaging services, public and private hospitals, maternity care, hospice services, oral healthcare services, mental health care services, ambulances and emergency care aged residential care services if you are a resident public housing and social housing emergency accommodation for people in need. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass to use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. Some transport providers — such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators — may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. Children, students, their parents or caregivers will not be asked to provide proof of vaccination to access these places: early childhood education and care centres registered schools secondary schools school transport services out of school care and recreation programmes. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Retail advice under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Health providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz. Advice for health providers under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | health.govt.nz (external link) Aged care providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz COVID-19: Aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Shopping and services Close-proximity businesses Close-proximity businesses can open at Orange, with vaccine passes and restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can visit a close-proximity business at Orange if you have a My Vaccine Pass. There is no limit to how many people can be present. Examples are: barbers hairdressers beauty salons driving instructors massage therapists. --- Section Separator --- If a close-proximity business chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Close-proximity business cannot open if they choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face mask: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operate by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies public-facing workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face mask whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face masks. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Shopping and services Shopping at Orange Shops and retail outlets can open at Orange with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Shops, including outdoor markets, banks and takeaway-only businesses, can open with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing . Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, though this will not affect their capacity limits. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter the shop. You must wear a face mask when you are visiting a shop. Everyone will always be able to access basic needs like food. Access to basic needs at Orange If you are a close-proximity service within a retail setting, for example a make-up artist within a makeup store, then you must follow the close-proximity rules. The rest of the retail store only needs to follow the retail rules. Close-proximity businesses at Orange Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Advice for retailers | business.govt.nz. (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Shopping and services Trades and home services You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at any traffic light setting. Examples of trades and home services are: getting home appliances fixed, like your fridge utility services, like gas and power cleaning for people who need assistance because of sickness or disability gardening services getting internet or other services installed or fixed locksmiths vet and pest management services. While they are inside your house it is strongly recommended you: keep 1 metre apart from them, and wear a face mask. Tradespeople are required to wear a face mask when inside people’s homes, and to keep a record of where they go. --- Section Separator --- Tradespeople and businesses that provide home services can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Sport and recreation Recreation Indoor recreation facilities can open at Orange with vaccine passes and restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- Indoor recreation facilities can open at Orange with vaccine passes and restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. You can travel anywhere for recreation — including overnight camping trips and trips to your bach or holiday home. If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Orange --- Section Separator --- Gyms and indoor recreation facilities such as dance studios, yoga studios, health clubs, bowling alleys and ice skating rinks, can open with vaccine passes and restrictions. If the facility chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You must show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated A facility cannot open if it chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor swimming pools, saunas and steam rooms can open with vaccine passes and restrictions. If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Orange If you want to go to a private facility that chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you must show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. There is no limit to the number of people who can be present. A private facility cannot open if it chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead at Orange with vaccine passes and restrictions. If the business running the class chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, you must show your vaccine pass when you are at class. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated If the business running the class chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements there can be up to 50 people based on 1-metre physical distancing in a single defined space at the venue at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without a My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children, but not staff. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Parks, playgrounds, sports grounds and other outdoor recreation facilities such as skate parks can open to everyone. Private clubs such as golf or tennis clubs that are not members-only indoor exercise facilities, can choose to restrict their facilities to people with My Vaccine Pass only. Contact your local club to find out how they are operating. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Entertainment, recreation and exercise guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Sport and recreation Sport You can attend sports events and play sport at Orange, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community sport, like organised social touch rugby, can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. If a venue for outdoor community sport chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. If a venue for outdoor community sport chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 50 people based on 1-metre physical distancing , in a single defined space at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. As there can be multiple defined spaces, this means: you can have multiple groups of spectators — they need to be 2 metres from any other group, and multiple games running at once — they must be 2 metres away from other groups. The capacity limit includes children, but not staff. If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Orange --- Section Separator --- Organised indoor sport, for example at a stadium or indoor arena, can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. If an indoor sport organiser chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated If the indoor sport venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 50 people based on 1-metre physical distancing , in a single defined space at a venue at any time. They can be a mix of vaccinated and unvaccinated people. The limit includes children, but not staff. If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Orange --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Sports clubs can find more detailed information on sportnz.org.nz: COVID-19 overview | sportnz.org.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Travel and accommodation Accommodation Accommodation can open at Orange without restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Accommodation can open at Orange. There are no capacity limits. Some accommodation may choose to require My Vaccine Pass. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the accommodation. This includes: hotels and motels boarding houses backpackers campgrounds seasonal worker accommodation AirBnB properties tertiary accommodation. It does not include private residences. If you are holding an event or a gathering at accommodation, follow the relevant advice: Events at Orange Gatherings at Orange Everyone over the age of 12 must have a My Vaccine Pass to stay in a DOC hut or campsite. Visitors will be asked about their vaccination status when they book a DOC hut or campsite. Hut wardens may also carry out spot checks to make sure everyone has My Vaccine Pass. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you can still use the DOC tracks and toilets, but you will not be allowed to stay overnight. Staying in a DOC hut or campsite | doc.govt.nz (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If the accommodation service contains a hospitality venue, they need to follow advice for hospitality services. Hospitality at Orange --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face mask everywhere else. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Travel and accommodation Travel You can travel anywhere for any reason at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at any traffic light setting. There are no boundaries under the traffic lights. You can travel for any reason. Do not travel if you are unwell. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test, unless you are travelling with some transport providers Airlines and Cook Strait ferries If you are travelling into a different setting area, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. There are no physical distancing requirements on transport services or in airports, train stations or bus terminals. Travel at Red --- Section Separator --- If you have been told to self-isolate because of COVID-19, you must not travel. What to do if you are told to self-isolate If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, you must not travel. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 while you are away from home, you and the people you are travelling with will need to isolate. You can only return home if you have a private vehicle, and you do not need to use public transport — such as a ferry — to get home. Make sure you have a plan in case this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Some transport providers — such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators — may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. The test must be taken no more than 72 hours before your journey. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. Free rapid antigen tests (RATs) are available at selected community pharmacies until 30 June 2022. The tests are available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company. More information about free rapid antigen testing --- Section Separator --- You do not need to show a vaccine pass to use public transport, as these services are needed to access services for basic needs such as food and healthcare. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, at bus stops or train stations. You must wear a face mask: on public transport at arrival and departure points, for example airports, train stations and bus stops Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask: in taxis in ride-share vehicles We recommend you wear a face mask whenever you leave your home. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. Learn more about life at Red: Gatherings and visits Travel Hospitality Education Sports and recreation Access to basic needs Shopping Close-proximity businesses --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. You will always be able to access basic needs services , such as food and healthcare. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason, and see friends and whānau. You must wear a face mask on flights, public transport, and taxis, in retail shops and public venues, and in health and education facilities. With My Vaccine Pass , most parts of life continue as usual. You can visit cafes and bars, attend gatherings and events, and go to the hairdresser and gym. There are capacity limits and distancing requirements at some venues. Without My Vaccine Pass , there are restrictions. Workplaces and schools are open. Keep scanning QR codes and recordkeeping wherever you go. Keep physically distanced wherever possible. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, isolate immediately and call Healthline for advice. Download the COVID-19 Protection Framework summary [PDF, 69 KB] --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Red, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead with My Vaccine Pass requirements and public facilities can open with restrictions at Red. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements at some locations. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Red, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead with My Vaccine Pass requirements and public facilities can open with restrictions at Red. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements at some locations. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. You can work from home if it is appropriate for your job If you are a worker, talk to your employer or read more at employment.govt.nz Working at Red | employment.govt.nz (external link) (external link) How to run your business at Red | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you enter a business as a visitor or customer, you may be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass. Businesses that are subject to My Vaccine Pass requirements are expected to check My Vaccine Pass for people on their premises, including workers. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass, either by looking at it, or scanning it with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Children under 12 years and 3 months can enter businesses without a My Vaccine Pass. Find out when you need your My Vaccine Pass Shopping at Red Close-proximity businesses at Red, like hairdressers and beauty salons Hospitality at Red Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Workplaces can open at Red. You can work from home if it is appropriate for your job. Talk to your employer about what is appropriate for you. Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate must be vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport, this includes Cook Strait Ferries but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services at arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport if you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above on public transport and Ministry of Education funded school transport in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public venues or facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic in an indoor setting at schools, for example classrooms and assemblies. This includes visitors, workers, and students and teachers in Years 4 to 13 inside at tertiary education facilities when visiting a licensed early childhood service at food and drink businesses, for example cafes, bars and restaurants. You can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink at close-proximity businesses, for example hairdressers, barbers, beauty salons when you are at a gathering, except when you have exclusive use of the venue or defined space in the public areas within courts, tribunals, local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a health care service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility. --- Section Separator --- Most businesses can choose whether they use My Vaccine Pass for customers and visitors, but there will be restrictions if they do not, including possibly needing to close. They can also switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring My Vaccine Pass. This could happen in places such as funeral homes where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a business chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both staff and visitors, must be told what the vaccine pass requirements are — whether it is for people with My Vaccine Pass, or a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. If you are a business owner or manager, now is the time to start thinking about what steps you can take to protect your workers and customers, if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. COVID-19 support for employers | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information: Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Education Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. --- Section Separator --- Children can attend early childhood centres, playgroups, schools and kura at Red, and must follow public health measures. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Red with My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Children can attend early childhood centres, playgroups, schools and kura at Red, and must follow public health measures. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Red with My Vaccine Pass.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Education Early learning, schools and kura at Red Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Red, and must follow public health measures. --- Section Separator --- Children do not need to be vaccinated to attend a licensed early learning service, kōhanga reo, school or kura. All early learning centres, schools and kura can open. Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Playgroups can only open with My Vaccine Pass requirements. All staff at education services must be vaccinated. All parents/caregivers and other visitors must wear a face mask indoors. All students aged 8 years or over, or in Year 4 and up, must wear face masks indoors, on public and school transport, and when in close contact with others. Children in Years 1 to 3 do not have to wear face masks. All school staff and teachers teaching and supporting children in Years 4 and up must wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- Staff and students in Years 4 to 13 must wear face masks indoors at school. All parents/caregivers and visitors must wear a face mask indoors. Mask guidance | education.govt.nz (external link) All parents/caregivers and other visitors are encouraged to maintain 1-metre distancing from other adults while indoors, for example to settle your child, or to view a service. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Certified playgroups can only open with My Vaccine Pass requirements. That means you must show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. Playgroups that operate on a school or early learning site or are run by a home-based childcare provider must operate under the vaccination order and keep a vaccine register. All parents/caregivers and other visitors are required to wear face masks indoors. Face masks must be an actual mask, secured with ear loops or a head loop. Staff and volunteers must wear medical-grade face masks when indoors. Types of mask --- Section Separator --- All licensed early learning services and kōhanga reo can open. Parents/caregivers who can supervise their children at home are encouraged to do so. This does not prevent parent-led services from opening. If required, services will be able to make choices about their capacity to manage attendance. All parents/caregivers and other visitors are required to wear face masks indoors. Face masks must be an actual mask, secured with ear loops or a head loop. Staff  and volunteers do not have to wear a face mask, but they can if they want to. Children attending early learning services do not have to wear masks on early learning service transport. This includes buses or vans chartered or used by early learning services to carry children, students and staff. Types of mask --- Section Separator --- Schools and kura can open. All ākonga (students) aged 8 years or over, or in Year 4 or above, must wear face masks at schools and kura when: indoors on public transport at all times on school transport. All ākonga aged 12 and up do not need to wear a face mask when: playing sport or engaging in recreational activities outdoors. Face masks for students must be an actual mask, secured with ear loops or a head loop. Staff and teachers must wear medical grade face masks when teaching and supporting children in Years 4 and up. This includes: indoors in classrooms and assemblies when accessing public venues at student health services on school transport. All parents/caregivers and other visitors must wear face masks on site. Wearing a face mask Mask guidance | education.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students are encouraged to wear face coverings in communal areas, and keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Red --- Section Separator --- Children and parents/caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: licensed early childhood education services and registered primary and secondary schools, including private providers school hostels school transport services for all students out of school care and recreation (OSCAR) programmes secondary students who attend a tertiary organisation for their learning. At education sites, some people must be fully vaccinated to have contact with children and students. This includes: teachers staff home-based educators every person aged 12 years and 3 months and over in the home where licensed home-based education and care takes place for children under 6 years old support people in schools and early learning centres, including volunteers teacher aides administration and maintenance staff contractors. An on-site register must be kept. Education sector vaccinations --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, they will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) Advice for schools and kura with a confirmed case of COVID-19 | education.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Anyone waiting for COVID-19 test results or required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for schools and kura | education.govt.nz. (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Education Tertiary education at Red Students can attend tertiary education in person at Red with My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Tertiary institutions can open. Students with My Vaccine Pass can attend in person. Students without My Vaccine Pass should talk about alternative learning options. Staff, students and visitors must wear a face mask indoors in public areas, and during teaching and learning. Do not go to any educational service if you are unwell, awaiting a COVID-19 test result or are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- Tertiary students with a My Vaccine Pass will be able to attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials and meetings in person when tertiary sites are open. Capacity is based on 1-metre distancing. Physical distancing is not required, though tertiary providers may impose their own distancing requirements. Tertiary students who do not have My Vaccine Pass should talk to their provider about alternative learning options. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Staff, students and visitors must wear a face mask indoors in public areas at tertiary education facilities, and during teaching and learning activities — unless you have an exemption. Masks must also be worn when accessing services such as student health, pharmacies and other retailers on-site. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Anyone waiting for COVID-19 test results or required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation can open. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass for residents and staff. Check with your provider about their requirements. Accommodation at Red --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education providers and students can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary and international sector | education.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Events Events can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. --- Section Separator --- Events can go ahead. Events are limited to 100 people if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. Children and babies are included in the event limits — but not people working at events. Events cannot go ahead if My Vaccine Pass requirements are not followed. When food and drink is being served, you must be seated and separated . Face masks should be worn at an event. Events staff and volunteers must wear a face covering. --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. Examples are: auctions cinemas commercial recreation activities concert venues conferences private galleries sporting events stadiums. If an event organiser chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There can be up to 100 people in a defined space at the venue at any time, based on 1-metre physical distancing. This includes children, but not workers. Events cannot go ahead if My Vaccine Pass requirements are not followed. When food and drink is being served, you must remain seated and separated. You can move around when you are not being served or eating. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community gatherings must follow the gathering guidelines. They are gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration. Examples are: street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs. Gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- You should wear a face mask at an event. Event workers and volunteers must wear a face covering. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business or event. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Public facilities Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Red with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can open with capacity limits. Face masks must be worn, but not at swimming pools. Maintain 1-metre physical distancing from others wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can open, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing . Examples of public facilities include: libraries public galleries museums zoos swimming pools recreation centres. Some public facilities may choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show My Vaccine Pass at the facilities. Check before you go. Face masks must be worn, but not at swimming pools. Maintain 1-metre physical distancing from others wherever possible. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Public facilities can open, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing . Public facilities are responsible for determining capacity limits of each facility, based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can find more information at business.govt.nz. Public facilities guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Local government can find more information at dia.govt.nz. COVID-19 Local Government Response Update | dia.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings can go ahead. Gatherings are limited to 100 people if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. Gatherings are limited to 25 people if My Vaccine Passes are not being used. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not people working at a gathering. You must wear a face mask at a gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. You do not need to wear a face mask when gathering in a private home. --- Section Separator --- You can have a gathering at Red, like getting together with friends, holding a wedding and attending a place of worship, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. Marae can open at Whero (Red), with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can have a gathering at Red, like getting together with friends, holding a wedding and attending a place of worship, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. Marae can open at Whero (Red), with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Red.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Faith-based gatherings You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. --- Section Separator --- Faith-based gatherings can go ahead. They are limited to 100 people if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. They are limited to 25 people if My Vaccine Passes are not being used. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not people working (including volunteers) at a gathering. You must wear a face mask at a gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. --- Section Separator --- A gathering is a group of people who are intermingling. Most faith-based services are gatherings. Examples of faith-based gatherings that can go ahead at Red include: services at places of worship prayer group at home weddings funerals and tangihanga. Weddings at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Marae at Red Events have different rules to gatherings. Events control access by using tickets, registration, a fee or another way of controlling entry. For example, a ticketed concert held at a place of worship is an event. Events at Red Encourage contactless donations instead of a cash collection box. Consider offering online services so people who cannot attend in person can participate. Clean and sanitise musical instruments thoroughly before and after use. Guidelines for places of worship [PDF, 285 KB] --- Section Separator --- There are different restrictions on the number of people who can attend a faith-based gathering, depending on whether My Vaccine Pass is used. Workers (paid or unpaid) at a gathering — for example, the person leading the service and musicians — are not included in the gathering limits. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits. The limits apply to both indoor and outdoor venues. At all gatherings, you do not need to physically distance. This means you can move around, mingle with others and dance. Faith-based gatherings at your home or a private dwelling are limited to 100 people . Faith-based gatherings at other venues are limited to a maximum of 100 people , based on how many people can be there if everyone stands 1 metre apart. It is the responsibility of the venue to ensure it complies with capacity limits. Smaller venues will be limited to fewer than 100 people. These limits include children under the age of 12 years and 3 months who cannot get a My Vaccine Pass. If the organiser of a faith-based gathering chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes the people working at the gathering. --- Section Separator --- Faith-based gatherings at your home or a private dwelling are limited to 25 people . Faith-based gatherings at other venues are limited to a maximum of 25 people , based on how many people can be there if everyone stands 1 metre apart. It is the responsibility of the venue to ensure it complies with capacity limits. Smaller venues will be limited to fewer than 25 people. They can be a mix of people with and without a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your faith-based gathering, but people should not share drinks, cups, plates, cutlery or other items. Unless your gathering is at a hospitality venue, people do not need to sit down to eat or drink. If your gathering is at a hospitality venue, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow the hospitality advice. If you have exclusive use of a hospitality venue, then you do not need to follow the hospitality advice. Where face masks are required, these can be removed while eating and drinking. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- All workers (paid or unpaid) at faith-based gatherings must wear a face mask throughout the gathering. Face mask requirements for people at the gathering who are not working will depend on where and how the gathering is held: You must wear a face mask at a gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with gathering attendees. Where face masks are required, you can remove them to eat and drink. Face masks must not be removed while singing. If 2 metres away from others, performers and workers presenting to an audience can remove their face masks. When to wear a face mask Face mask exemptions --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. --- Section Separator --- Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Red. It is up to workers and the whānau or family to agree if the funeral or tangihanga is only open to people with My Vaccine Pass or to a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. If the funeral or tangihanga is following My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There can be up to 100 people in a single defined space at the venue at any time, both indoors and outdoors. The limit includes children under 12, whānau pani and ringawera. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes marae churches, mosques and other faith-based places of worship hired venues or facilities private homes You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga, burial or viewing. You can serve food and drink. A marae can have multiple groups of 100 people coming through to attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Red Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). Up to 100 people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you are fully vaccinated. This can include: washing dressing shrouding other preparations for cremation or burial. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Organisers of the funeral or tangihanga must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- If a venue chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, funerals and tangihanga are limited to 25 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children under 12, but not workers. You can serve food and drink. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements—they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. Marae can choose whether to allow people without a My Vaccine Pass to attend a tangihanga. If they are allowed, tangihanga are limited to 25 people . Multiple groups of 25 people can attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae can also choose to switch between allowing people with and without My Vaccine Pass to attend. Groups cannot be on the marae at the same time. For example, 25 people who do not have My Vaccine Pass could attend a tangihanga in the morning. After cleaning, a group of 100 people with My Vaccine Pass could attend the tangihanga later in the day. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Red Up to 25 people can view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). The limit can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include workers who are attending. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Organisers of the funeral or tangihanga must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility, and all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask if the funeral or tangihanga has exclusive use of a venue. We encourage you to wear a face mask in shared areas — if there are other activities happening at the venue at the same time. Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face masks —  unless they are exempt. Workers hosting or officiating the service do not need to wear a face mask when speaking and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. When you need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, places of worship or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both workers and visitors, must be told what the My Vaccine Pass requirements are — whether My Vaccine Pass is or is not required. --- Section Separator --- There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: not kiss or touch the body wash your hands thoroughly after the viewing physically distance from others of at least 1 metre. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Marae at Red — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Marae can open at Whero (Red), with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings at marae can go ahead. If My Vaccine Pass is used, there can be up to 100 people in a single defined space at the marae at a time. If My Vaccine is not used, there can be up to 25 people i n a single defined space at the marae at a time. Children, babies, w hānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the gathering limits — but not people working (including volunteers). Manuhiri (visitors to the marae) must wear a face mask if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. Manuhiri do not need to wear a face mask if they are the only group using the defined space and other manuhiri cannot mix. --- Section Separator --- At Whero, gatherings at marae can go ahead. It is up to the leaders of the marae to decide whether: they want to allow gatherings people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass can use marae or attend gatherings Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. --- Section Separator --- If a marae chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass at the marae. There can be up to 100 people in a single defined space at the marae at a time. This includes tamariki under the age of 12 years and 3 months. Whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the number limits on marae. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. Public and private gatherings at Red Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that marae can use to verify My Vaccine Passes. At large gatherings, marae must check all vaccine passes but can choose to verify some passes if verifying every My Vaccine Pass is difficult. Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If a marae chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 25 people in a single defined space at the marae at a time. These 25 people can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. --- Section Separator --- Marae can choose to require vaccine passes or not. You cannot change mid-gathering. If any member of the whānau pani, paepae, taumata or ringawera is not fully vaccinated, gathering restrictions will apply as if My Vaccine Pass is not being used. If a marae chooses to allow people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass to attend gatherings, marae must make sure: there is no intermingling of ope rooms are cleaned in between groups whānau pani, paepae, taumata, ringawera and manuhiri are told whether they are attending a gathering of people with My Vaccine Passes or a whether it is for people with My Vaccine Pass, or a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Workers and volunteers at a marae must wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask — for example — for medical reasons, you can get an exemption card. Manuhiri (visitors to the marae) do not need to wear a face mask if their gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix. Manuhiri must wear a face mask if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. Face masks can be removed to eat or drink. They can also be removed by kaikōrero if they can keep 2 metres away from their audience at all times. When you need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- You can serve kai. Decisions about how to serve kai will be made by Marae Kōmiti. Marae may choose to continue using options like takeaway lunches or eating outside, particularly if gatherings are a mixture of people with or without My Vaccine Pass. People serving or handling kai must wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- Overnight stays are permitted on marae. The same rules apply as day time visits. --- Section Separator --- Marae often have large groups of people visiting and gathering together. There are some simple things marae can do to keep whānau safe: Display your NZ COVID Tracer QR code and encourage manuhiri to scan in. Clean surfaces and rooms in between groups. Ask people with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay home. Modify tikanga that involves close contact — for example hongi and harirū.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings You can have a gathering at Red, like meeting friends, holding a wedding and attending a place of worship, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings can go ahead. Gatherings are limited to 100 people if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. Gatherings are limited to 25 people if My Vaccine Passes are not being used. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not people working at a gathering. You must wear a face mask at a gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. You do not need to wear a face mask when gathering in a private home. --- Section Separator --- Examples of gatherings that can go ahead at Red include: catching up with friends and whānau weddings and civil union ceremonies most faith-based gatherings get-togethers and parties at your home club functions social sports funerals and tangihanga most gatherings at marae street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs. Find more information: Faith-based gatherings at Red Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Marae at Red --- Section Separator --- There are different restrictions on the number of people who can attend a gathering, depending on whether My Vaccine Pass is used. Workers at a gathering — for example, a wedding photographer or a caterer at a private function — are not included in the gathering limits. There is no limit on the number of workers who can work at a gathering. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits. The limits apply to both indoor and outdoor venues. At all gatherings, people do not need to physically distance. This means you can move around, and dance. Gatherings at your home or a private dwelling are limited to 100 people . Gatherings at other venues are limited to a maximum of 100 people. It is the responsibility of the venue to ensure it complies with capacity limits. Smaller venues will be limited to fewer than 100 people. These limits include children under the age of 12 years and 3 months who cannot get a My Vaccine Pass. If the organiser of a gathering chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes the people working at the gathering. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings at your home or a private dwelling are limited to 25 people . Gatherings at other venues are limited to a maximum of 25 people. It is the responsibility of the venue to ensure it complies with capacity limits. They can be a mix of people with and without a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering. Unless your gathering is at a hospitality venue, people do not need to sit down to eat or drink. If your gathering is at a hospitality venue, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow the hospitality advice. If you have exclusive use of a hospitality venue, then you do not need to follow the hospitality advice. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at a gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. This means that you do not need to wear a face mask at most weddings, funerals or tangihanga, or faith-based gatherings. You do not need to wear a face mask when gathering in a private home. Everyone working at the gathering must wear a face mask — unless they are exempt. Performers do not need to wear a face mask when performing and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. They should wear face masks when not performing. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Advice for faith-based gatherings --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Visiting friends and whānau You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, healthcare facilities and prisons at Red. --- Section Separator --- Friends and whānau can visit each other's homes at every traffic light setting. There may be restrictions on who can visit rest homes, aged care facilities, hospital and healthcare facilities. We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave your home. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility, hospital or healthcare facility. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. --- Section Separator --- Household bubbles do not exist under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights). You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Examples include: catching up with friends and whānau at their home or your home parties and other gatherings at their home or your home. You and your guests do not need to wear face masks. Learn more about private gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep workers and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for health professionals | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are currently no face-to-face visits allowed for private and legal visitors. When visits start again, all private visitors are required to be fully vaccinated. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave your home. You do not need to wear a face mask if you are visiting friends and whānau at their home, or hosting a gathering for them at your own home. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility, hospital or healthcare facility. Learn more about when you need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Weddings and civil unions at Red You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. --- Section Separator --- Weddings and civil union ceremonies can go ahead. They are limited to 100 people if My Vaccine Pass is used. They are limited to 25 people if My Vaccine Passes are not being used. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not workers, such as the celebrant or the photographer. You and your guests do not have to wear face masks if you have exclusive use of a defined space for your wedding or civil union. Workers at the wedding or civil union must wear a face mask. You do not have to physically distance — this means you can dance and mingle. --- Section Separator --- There are different restrictions on the number of people who can attend a wedding or civil union, depending on whether My Vaccine Pass is used. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits. The limits are the same for both indoor and outdoor venues. Workers (paid and unpaid) can include the celebrant, photographer, performers, and catering staff. Friends and whānau participating in the ceremony are not included as workers. Workers are not included in the gathering limits for gatherings with My Vaccine Pass or without My Vaccine Pass. You can have 100 people if your wedding or civil union is at a private home or dwelling. The 100 person limit does not include people working at the wedding or civil union ceremony. The limits include children under the age of 12 years and 3 months who cannot get a My Vaccine Pass. People working at the wedding or civil union ceremony must have a My Vaccine Pass. These are limited to a maximum of up to 100 people based on 1 metre physical distancing. The capacity limit is based on the maximum number of people who could occupy the space if each person was 1 metre apart. People do not have to keep 1 metre apart at the venue. This means if your wedding is at a smaller venue, you may be limited to fewer than 100 people. It is up to the venue owner to determine the capacity limits based on the size of their venue. Talk to the venue owner about the number of guests you can safely invite. You can have 25 people if your wedding or civil union is at a private home or dwelling. The 25 person limit does not include people working at the wedding or civil union ceremony. These are limited to a maximum of up to 25 people based on 1 metre physical distancing. The capacity limit is based on the maximum number of people who could occupy the space if each person was 1 metre apart. People do not have to keep 1 metre apart at the venue. This means if your wedding is at a smaller venue, you may be limited to fewer than 25 people. It is up to the venue owner to determine the capacity limits based on the size of their venue. Talk to the venue owner about the number of guests you can safely invite. --- Section Separator --- Everyone can move around, dance and mingle. Singing and other types of performance are also allowed. --- Section Separator --- You and your guests do not need to physically distance. --- Section Separator --- You and your guests do not need to wear a face mask if you have exclusive use of a defined space for your wedding or civil union ceremony — for example , if you have hired a lodge, hall or vineyard . This includes weddings held at private homes. You and your guests must wear a face mask if you do not have exclusive use of the defined space where the wedding is taking place — for example , if members of the public also have access to it. You can take your face mask off to eat and drink. Workers at the wedding or civil union ceremony must wear a face mask — unless they are exempt. Performers do not need to wear a face mask when performing and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. They must wear face masks when not performing. When you need to wear a face mask Defined spaces --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink. If you have exclusively hired a venue for your wedding or civil union ceremony, people do not need to sit down to eat or drink.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Hospitality venues Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass restrictions. There can be up to 100 people, including children. Customers must be seated and separated from other groups. You must wear a face mask when going to a hospitality venue — you can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink, but you must wear a face mask when paying, using the bathroom and entering and exiting the venue. Public-facing workers must wear face masks. Takeaway businesses can open. If a hospitality business chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, it can open for takeaway only. --- Section Separator --- Cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs with My Vaccine Pass restrictions can open at Red. There can be up to 100 people, including children. The limit does not include workers. Only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to enter the premises. This includes delivery drivers, and people who are picking up their own takeaway orders. My Vaccine Pass may be checked at the door, or inside the venue. A business can look at your My Vaccine Pass or use the NZ Pass Verifier App to verify it. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter. You must wear a face mask when going to a hospitality venue — you can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink, but you must wear a face mask when paying, using the bathroom and entering and exiting the venue. Public-facing workers must wear medical grade face masks. Wear a face mask Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Customers must be seated and separated from other groups. Nightclubs can open, but customers must be seated and separated, which means dancing is not allowed. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Food and drink service guidelines | Business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If a hospitality business chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, it can open for takeaway only and should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Red --- Section Separator --- Food and beverage businesses that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can open. Takeaway services should follow the rules for retail. This includes businesses without My Vaccine Pass that can only provide takeaway services. Retail at Red Order ahead, either online or over the phone. Wear a face mask whenever you are outside your home. Prepay online, or use a contactless payment method, like PayWave. If you are using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, wash or sanitise your hands as soon as possible. You may be able to use reusable cups or containers. Check with the takeaway provider. Keep apart from others while waiting in a queue. Sign-in using the NZ Covid Tracer app. Get it and go — make your visit as quick as possible. If you do not have My Vaccine Pass you must collect your takeaways in a contactless way, and must not go inside. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Moving, buying and selling your home You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can move house at Red. You can buy or sell your home at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can move house at Red. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at all traffic light settings for any reason, including to move house. Travel advice --- Section Separator --- You can buy or sell your home at Red. You can hold and attend open homes. You can carry out property inspections. Advice for landlords and tenants | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) If the property owner or real estate agent chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Properties can have up to 100 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space at any time. It is the responsibility of the property owner or real estate agent to comply with capacity limits. Guidelines for real estate activities at Red | rea.govt.nz (external link) Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. If the property owner or real estate agent chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 25 people based on 1-metre physical distancing in a single defined space at the property at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. It is the responsibility of the property owner or real estate agent to comply with capacity limits. Guidelines for real estate activities at Red | rea.govt.nz (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask when you are outside your home. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies can find more detailed information, including advice for holding open homes and auctions. Services guidelines under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Guidelines for real estate activities at Red | rea.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Moving companies can find more information on business.govt.nz Advice for services | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Red, and visit other retail outlets. --- Section Separator --- Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. Shops and retail outlets can open at Red. Close-proximity businesses can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Red. --- Section Separator --- Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. Shops and retail outlets can open at Red. Close-proximity businesses can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Red.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Access to basic needs Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. --- Section Separator --- At every traffic light setting, you will be able to access basic needs such as food, healthcare and education. You will not be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass to use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. You must wear a face mask when accessing services for basic needs. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you have been. --- Section Separator --- You will not be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass to access these places and services: supermarkets dairies food banks pharmacies petrol stations essential health and disability services, including primary care services, specialist clinics, laboratories and imaging services, public and private hospitals, maternity care, hospice services, oral healthcare services, mental health care services, ambulances and emergency care aged residential care services if you are a resident public housing and social housing emergency accommodation for people in need. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass to use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. Some transport providers — such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators — may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. Children, students, their parents or caregivers will not be asked to provide proof of vaccination to access these places: early childhood education and care centres registered schools secondary schools school transport services out of school care and recreation programmes. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask when accessing services for basic needs. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Retail advice under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Health providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz. Advice for health providers under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | health.govt.nz (external link) Aged care providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz COVID-19: Aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Close-proximity businesses If you have a My Vaccine Pass, you can visit a close-proximity business, such as a hairdresser. --- Section Separator --- If you have a My Vaccine Pass, you can visit a close-proximity business, such as a hairdresser. You must wear a face mask when you visit a close-proximity business. Workers working at close-proximity businesses must wear a face mask. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. If you are unwell, are isolating or waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, call and reschedule your appointment. --- Section Separator --- If you have a My Vaccine Pass, you can visit a close-proximity business at Red. Examples of close-proximity businesses are: barbers hairdressers beauty salons driving instructors massage therapists tattoo parlours. --- Section Separator --- If a close-proximity business chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. These rules also apply to people providing close-proximity services in people’s homes — for example, mobile hairdressers. Advice for close-proximity businesses | business.govt.nz (external link) You should keep 1 metre apart from other customers and workers, except when close contact is required to provide the service. Businesses may have additional restrictions under Red, for example, some hairdressers may choose to not provide refreshments. Check with the business before you go. --- Section Separator --- If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you cannot visit a close-proximity business. Close-proximity business cannot open if they choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. --- Section Separator --- Workers must wear face masks. You must wear a face mask when visiting a close-proximity business. You may be able to remove your face mask if you could not receive the service if you left it on. An example is having a beard trim. Check with the staff before you take your face mask off. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Shopping Shops and retail outlets can open at Red with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Shops and retail outlets can open at Red. The number of people allowed at a retail outlet depends on how large the premises is. Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. You must wear a face mask when visiting shops and retail outlets. --- Section Separator --- Shops, including outdoor markets, banks and takeaway-only businesses, can open at Red. The number of people allowed at a retail outlet depends on how large the premises is. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Defined spaces and capacity limits | business.govt.nz (external link) Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, though this does not change how many people can be there. If they do, they can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the shop. You will always be able to access basic needs like food. Supermarkets and dairies are not allowed to stop you from shopping there based on your vaccination status. Access to basic needs at Red Examples of close-proximity businesses include hairdressers and beauty salons. If you are at a close-proximity service within a retail setting, for example a make-up artist within a makeup store, then you must follow the rules for close-proximity businesses. The rest of the retail store only needs to follow the retail rules. Close-proximity businesses at Red Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask when visiting shops, outdoor markets, banks and takeaway-only businesses. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Advice for retailers | business.govt.nz. (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Trades and home services You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Tradespeople must wear a face mask. Do not invite tradespeople into your home if you are unwell, are isolating, or waiting for a COVID-19 test result. --- Section Separator --- Examples of trades and home services are: getting home appliances fixed, like your fridge utility services, like gas and power cleaning for people who need assistance because of sickness or disability gardening services getting internet or other services installed or fixed locksmiths vet and pest management services. While they are inside your house it is strongly recommended you: keep 1 metre apart from them, and wear a face mask. Tradespeople must wear a face mask when inside people’s homes, and keep a record of where they go. --- Section Separator --- Do not invite tradespeople or home service providers into your home if you: have been told to self-isolate are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test are unwell What to do if you are told to self-isolate Stay home if you are sick --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Sport and recreation Recreation Indoor recreation facilities can open at Red with restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- Gyms and indoor recreation facilities with My Vaccine Pass requirements can open. Swimming pools with My Vaccine Pass requirements can open. Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead but with capacity limits. Customers are not required to wear a face mask. Gym staff must wear a face mask, except when they are instructing a class and can maintain a 2-metre distance from others. --- Section Separator --- Gyms and indoor recreation facilities, such as dance studios, yoga studios, health clubs, bowling alleys and ice skating rinks, can open if they choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. Only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass. Customers are not required to wear a face mask. Gym staff must wear a face mask, except when they are instructing a class and can maintain a 2-metre distance from others. Gyms and indoor recreation facilities can have up to 100 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space at any time. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure a gym or indoor recreation facility complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. A facility cannot open if it chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. Public recreation facilities will follow the guidelines for public facilities. Public facilities at Red --- Section Separator --- Public swimming pools can open. If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Red Indoor and outdoor swimming pools at private facilities with My Vaccine Pass requirements can open. This includes saunas and steam rooms. Learn to swim classes can continue. Only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. You do not need to wear a face mask at a swimming pool. Participants in classes do not have to physically distance. All other swimmers should keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Swimming can have up to 100 people . It is the responsibility of the facility to ensure a swimming pool complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. A private facility, such as a swimming pool at a gym, cannot open if it chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead at Red with restrictions. Only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Face masks are not required. Physical distancing is not required. Up to 100 people can be present, based on 1-metre distancing . If the business organising the class chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, the classes will be limited to 25 people based on 1-metre physical distancing. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children under the age of 12, but does not include workers. --- Section Separator --- Parks, playgrounds, sports grounds and other outdoor recreation facilities such as skate parks can open to everyone. Private clubs such as golf or tennis clubs that are not members-only indoor exercise facilities, can choose to restrict their facilities to vaccinated people only. Contact your local club to find out how they are operating. Physical distancing is strongly encouraged. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an outdoor recreation facility, follow the rules for: events at Red , or gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- You can travel for recreation — including overnight camping trips and trips to your bach or holiday home. Travel at Red --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Entertainment, recreation and exercise guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Sport and recreation Sport You can attend sports events and play sport at Red, with My Vaccine Pass restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor sports events can go ahead. They are limited to 100 people if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. They are limited to 25 people if My Vaccine Passes are not being used. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave your home. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you have been. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community sport, like organised social touch rugby, can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. If a venue for outdoor community sport chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There can be up to 100 people based on 1-metre distancing in a defined space at the venue at any time. As there can be multiple defined spaces, this means: you can have multiple groups of spectators — they need to be 2 metres from any other group, and multiple games running at once — they must be 2 metres away from other groups. The capacity limit does not include staff at the venue. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated If a venue for outdoor community sport chooses not to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 25 people in a defined space at the venue at any time. For example, a game of cricket with 11 players each side can go ahead. A group of spectators up to 25 people can be watching from the sidelines. Spectators should remain 2 metres apart from players. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff at the venue. If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Red --- Section Separator --- Organised indoor sport, for example at a stadium or indoor arena, can go ahead at Red with restrictions. If a venue for indoor sport chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There can be up to 100 people based on 1-metre distancing , in a defined space at the venue at any time. As there can be multiple defined spaces, this means: you can have multiple groups of spectators — they need to be 2 metres from any other group, and multiple games running at once — they must be 2 metres away from other groups. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated If an indoor sports venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there can be up to 25 people in a defined space at the venue at any time. For example, a game of netball can go ahead. A group of spectators up to 25 people can be watching from the sidelines. Spectators should remain 2 metres apart from players. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff at the venue. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places when you must wear a face mask. We recommend you wear a face mask whenever you leave your home. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Sports clubs can find more detailed information on sportnz.org.nz: COVID-19 overview | sportnz.org.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Travel and accommodation You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can travel around New Zealand at Red. Accommodation can open at Red without restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can travel around New Zealand at Red. Accommodation can open at Red without restrictions.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Travel and accommodation Accommodation Accommodation can open at Red without restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Accommodation can open at Red. There are no capacity limits. Some accommodation services require you to have a My Vaccine Pass. Do not travel if you are unwell, isolating or waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. You must wear a face mask if you are in a food and drink business attached to an accommodation provider. You can take your face mask off when seated and to eat and drink. We encourage you to wear a face mask in communal areas. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you have stayed. --- Section Separator --- Some accommodation may choose to require My Vaccine Pass. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the accommodation. This includes: cabins campgrounds backpackers boarding houses hotels and motels seasonal worker accommodation AirBnB properties tertiary accommodation. It does not include private residences. If you are holding an event or a gathering at accommodation, follow the relevant advice: Events at Red Gatherings at Red Everyone over the age of 12 years and 3 months must have a My Vaccine Pass to stay in a DOC hut or campsite. Visitors will be asked about their vaccination status when they book a DOC hut or campsite. Hut wardens may also carry out spot checks to make sure everyone has My Vaccine Pass. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you can still use the DOC tracks and toilets, but you will not be allowed to stay overnight. Staying in a DOC hut or campsite | doc.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Accommodation services can provide food and drink. Customer-facing food and beverage services, other than room service, must follow the food and beverage rules. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask if you are in a food and drink business attached to an accommodation provider. You can take your face mask off when seated and to eat and drink. We encourage you to wear a face mask in communal areas. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Travel and accommodation Travel You can travel around New Zealand at Red. There are no boundaries under the traffic lights. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at all traffic light settings. There are no boundaries under the traffic lights. You can travel for any reason. Do not travel if you are unwell, isolating or waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Unless your transport provider requires it, you do not need a My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test to travel. You must wear a face mask on all flights and public transport, in taxi and ride-share services — unless you are exempt. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. --- Section Separator --- You do not need a My Vaccine Pass to use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, or at bus stops or train stations. --- Section Separator --- Some transport providers — such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators — may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. The test must be taken no more than 72 hours before your journey. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. Free rapid antigen tests (RATs) are available at selected community pharmacies until 30 June 2022. The tests are available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company. More information about free rapid antigen testing --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport in taxis and ride-share services on Cook Strait ferries at arrival and departure points, for example airports, train stations, bus stops and terminals on all Kiwirail services — but you can take your face mask off when you are in your seat inside your allocated carriage. If you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above, you must wear a face mask on public transport and Ministry of Education funded school transport (school buses). When you must wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 while you are away from home, you and the people you are travelling with will need to isolate. You can only return home if you have a private vehicle, and you do not need to use public transport — such as a ferry — to get home. Make sure you have a plan in case this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Find out about requirements for travelling to, transiting, and departing New Zealand. International travel --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Traffic lights map Search or browse for your local traffic light setting. --- Section Separator --- What you need to do under each traffic light setting Life at Red Life at Orange --- Section Separator --- Waka Kotahi’s Journey Planner uses the latest travel time information, traffic cameras, and updates on delays, roadworks and road closures to help you plan your journey. Use Journey Planner (external link)
