Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice If you are pregnant or breastfeeding --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. More information on immunisation and pregnancy | immunise.health.nz There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. We recommend pregnant people who are eligible get the bivalent booster at any stage of pregnancy or during breastfeeding. It will need to be at least 6 months since you had a COVID-19 vaccine or a positive COVID-19 test. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) Covid 19 vaccines, pregnancy and breastfeeding [PDF, 362 KB] Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. More information on immunisation and pregnancy | immunise.health.nz There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. We recommend pregnant people who are eligible get the bivalent booster at any stage of pregnancy or during breastfeeding. It will need to be at least 6 months since you had a COVID-19 vaccine or a positive COVID-19 test. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. --- Section Separator --- If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Covid 19 vaccines, pregnancy and breastfeeding [PDF, 362 KB] Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice If you have a health condition --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. For boosters, we use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. This is an updated vaccine targeting Omicron. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get another booster, regardless of how many boosters you have had. Get your vaccine booster If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or Novavax vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or Novavax vaccine. Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. --- Section Separator --- If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. --- Section Separator --- Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. For boosters, we use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. This is an updated vaccine targeting Omicron. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get another booster, regardless of how many boosters you have had. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or Novavax vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or Novavax vaccine. --- Section Separator --- Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ngā tāruatanga koreutu o ā mātou rauemi me ngā huarawa mai i tā mātou Tomokanga Bluestar. (external link) Haere ki toolkit.covid19.govt.nz (external link) ka whakamahi i te pātene Login/Register ki te hanga pūkete. Whakamahia te āputa rapunga ki te whakauru kupu matua e hāngai ana ki te rauemi e rapu ana koe. He reo Pākehā te pae. Nō reira mēnā e kimi ana koe i ngā rauemi kua whakamāoritia, me rapu mā ngā kupu Pākehā (hei tauira, face coverings, contact tracing, testing, aha atu.) Ka taea hoki e koe te rapu i tō reo e kitea ai ngā rauemi katoa e wātea ana. Kia mutu tō pato ki te Search ka taea e koe te whakarei ake i ō hua mā ngā tātari takaiho. Kia kitea e koe tāu e hiahia ana, tīkina ake, tiria, tāpiritia rānei ki tō kete mēnā e tīkina ake ana e koe ngā tūemi maha. Me tono i ngā huarawa kore utu mā tō pakihi, whakahaere hapori, takahanga rānei mā tā mātou rārangi tuihono, ā, ka tukua ngā rauemi hāngai ki a koe, tō pakihi, tō rōpū hapori rānei. Haere ki te Bluestar Portal. (external link) Go well this winter [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ngā tāruatanga koreutu o ā mātou rauemi me ngā huarawa mai i tā mātou Tomokanga Bluestar. (external link) Haere ki toolkit.covid19.govt.nz (external link) ka whakamahi i te pātene Login/Register ki te hanga pūkete. Whakamahia te āputa rapunga ki te whakauru kupu matua e hāngai ana ki te rauemi e rapu ana koe. He reo Pākehā te pae. Nō reira mēnā e kimi ana koe i ngā rauemi kua whakamāoritia, me rapu mā ngā kupu Pākehā (hei tauira, face coverings, contact tracing, testing, aha atu.) Ka taea hoki e koe te rapu i tō reo e kitea ai ngā rauemi katoa e wātea ana. Kia mutu tō pato ki te Search ka taea e koe te whakarei ake i ō hua mā ngā tātari takaiho. Kia kitea e koe tāu e hiahia ana, tīkina ake, tiria, tāpiritia rānei ki tō kete mēnā e tīkina ake ana e koe ngā tūemi maha. Me tono i ngā huarawa kore utu mā tō pakihi, whakahaere hapori, takahanga rānei mā tā mātou rārangi tuihono, ā, ka tukua ngā rauemi hāngai ki a koe, tō pakihi, tō rōpū hapori rānei. Haere ki te Bluestar Portal. (external link) Go well this winter [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Te whakamātautau | Testing Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te hāereere | Travel Te tautoko | Support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Te whakamātautau | Testing Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te hāereere | Travel Te tautoko | Support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home News and data Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Data and statistics available: COVID-19 cases Vaccine data COVID-19 data portal Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 10 July 2023 The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. This includes: current COVID-19 cases case demographics source of COVID-19 cases. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more case data. COVID-19 current cases | Ministry of Health (external link) 184 Cases in hospital as at midnight Sunday 184 Cases in hospital as at midnight Sunday 771 New case 7-day rolling average 771 New case 7-day rolling average 5,417 New cases reported in the last week 5,417 New cases reported in the last week 103 People reinfected within 90 days (in the last week) 103 People reinfected within 90 days (in the last week) --- Section Separator --- You can filter case numbers by health districts, age groups, and first infections and reinfections. COVID-19 data charts | Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 10 July 2023 The Ministry of Health reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and deaths related to COVID-19. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more data. COVID-19 current cases data | Ministry of Health (external link) 3 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 3 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 3,159 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) 3,159 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 3 July 2023 The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more testing data. Testing for COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) 1,362 7-day rolling average of RATs each day 1,362 7-day rolling average of RATs each day 9,308 PCR tests in the past week 9,308 PCR tests in the past week --- Section Separator --- Last updated 5 July 2023 The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Data is updated weekly on a Wednesday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more vaccine data. COVID-19 vaccine data | Ministry of Health (external link) The dataset used to calculate the percentage of people vaccinated changed in August 2022. Find out more on the Te Whatu Ora website: Updated health user information informs COVID-19 vaccination programme | Te Whatu Ora (external link) 73.2% Percentage of eligible 18+ who have received first booster 73.2% Percentage of eligible 18+ who have received first booster 89.4% Percentage of 12+ who have completed primary course 89.4% Percentage of 12+ who have completed primary course 271,325 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 271,325 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 157,756 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 157,756 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 2,769,454 Booster first doses 2,769,454 Booster first doses 956,990 Booster second doses 956,990 Booster second doses 124 Infant first dose (age 6 months to 4 years) 124 Infant first dose (age 6 months to 4 years) 90 Infant second dose (age 6 months to 4 years) 90 Infant second dose (age 6 months to 4 years) --- Section Separator --- Check our map to find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | Stats NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- If data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and, for researchers, the ability to request detailed COVID-19 data. COVID-19 data resources | Ministry of Health (external link)
Home Testing and isolation COVID-19 testing How to get a COVID-19 test How to get a free RAT or PCR test, where to find a community testing centre or a collection site, and how to report RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. --- Section Separator --- You can get free rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a range of locations, including the usual collection sites, marae and some pharmacies. Where to get a test If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Check the list of COVID-19 symptoms If you live with a person who has COVID-19 or have spent at least 8 hours with them in the same home, you are a Household Contact. We recommend you do a RAT each day for 5 days. Advice for Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Two types of COVID-19 tests are available to the general public in New Zealand. Rapid antigen tests (RATs): RATs are the main testing method for people with COVID-19 symptoms or who are Household Contacts. Results take up to 20 minutes. RATs detect all COVID-19 variants. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests: PCRs are used in some situations. Results take 2 to 5 days. PCR tests detect all COVID-19 variants. A health professional can advise you on the right test to take in your situation. How COVID-19 testing works --- Section Separator --- You are allowed to leave your home to get a COVID-19 test while you are self-isolating. You can pick up free RATs for yourself and household members from COVID-19 testing centres and collection sites including some pharmacies. Find a collection centre near you: COVID-19 testing | Healthpoint (external link) Your doctor may offer COVID-19 tests. Call them to find out and follow their advice. --- Section Separator --- There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs). While the instructions are similar for each, make sure to check the instructions in your kit. How to use a RAT --- Section Separator --- Whether positive or negative, you should report the results of your RAT. R eporting the result means you can get the help you need as early as possible. How to report your RAT result --- Section Separator --- After your test, you must self-isolate until you receive a negative result. You will get your results in a text message from 2328 . It will take 2 to 5 days. If you test positive, the text message will provide information about self-isolation, support options and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you have COVID-19
Home Testing and isolation Financial support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. --- Section Separator --- Answer these questions to find out what financial support you could get. There are different support options if you are an employer, are self-employed or a sole trader, or if you are an employee. --- Section Separator --- If you cannot work from home while you are self-isolating, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer needs to apply for you. Y ou can also apply if you are self-employed. You may also be eligible for the scheme if you or someone you care for is at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Your employer can get $600 per week if you work full time, and $359 per week if you work part time to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme | Work and Income (external link) Extra help while you are self-isolating | Work and Income (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job or you cannot work at the moment, you may be able to get help from Work and Income. Use the online tool to find out what type of help you may qualify for. Support if you are not working | Work and Income (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job, cannot work or are working fewer hours, you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent, board, or the cost of owning a home power, gas, heating or water bills medical and dental costs. You do not need to be on a benefit to get financial support. Help for you and your whānau during COVID-19 | Work and Income (external link) Call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 or use their online calculator to check what you might be eligible for. Check what you might get | Ministry of Social Development (MSD) (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your employment has been affected and you are experiencing financial hardship, or you need help getting home, your embassy or consulate may be able to help. People on a temporary visa are not eligible for help from Work and Income. Contact details of your country's embassy, consulate or high commission (external link) (external link) If you are an international student and are experiencing financial hardship, we recommend you speak to your education provider or student association. They may be able to offer you free budgeting advice, or tell you about funds that are available.
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 If you have COVID-19 you need to self-isolate for 7 days. Find out what else you need to do. --- Section Separator --- If you have taken a rapid antigen test (RAT), report your positive result online or by calling the helpline. Online: My Covid Record (external link) Call: 0800 222 478 (choose option 3) How to report your RAT result Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand will then send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers to confirm your positive result. This has information about self-isolation, support options, and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you had a PCR test, you will get a text message with your result. If your employer asks to see proof that you must isolate, you can use this text message. You do not need a medical certificate from a doctor. --- Section Separator --- You must self-isolate for 7 days while you recover. This includes if you have had COVID-19 before. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Create your household isolation and testing timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Your Household Contacts do not need to isolate. They should test daily for 5 days. If they test positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. Advice for your Household Contacts You must stay at home and avoid contact with other people in your household. Find out what to do when self-isolating, including permitted reasons to leave self-isolation, and how to ventilate your home. How to self-isolate Ventilation and COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Free antivirals to treat COVID-19 are available for people who are at risk of developing serious illness and for some people who have tested positive for COVID-19. Medicines to treat COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Complete Te Whatu Ora’s contact tracing form using your 6-digit access code. (You can find this code in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers .) For most people, the form will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and do not complete the form within 12 hours, you will get a phone call. How to use the contact tracing form You also need to tell your close contacts you have COVID-19. This includes the people you live with, and your workplace or school. Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19 — especially if they are fully vaccinated and boosted — are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to recover at home. Symptoms for COVID-19 tend to show 2 to 5 days after a person has been infected but can take up to 14 days. Omicron causes similar symptoms to other variants. Advice on managing your COVID-19 symptoms | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) If you need advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If your symptoms get worse or you need urgent medical care, call your local healthcare provider or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 If you or the person you are caring for develops difficulty breathing, severe chest pain, fainting or becomes unconscious, call 111 immediately. If you require hospital-level care, it is free. --- Section Separator --- You can end your self-isolation 7 days after your symptoms started or you tested positive, whichever came first. You cannot end your self-isolation early, even if a later test is negative during the 7 days. You do not need to wait for an official message to leave self-isolation. You may receive a text message confirming your self-isolation period has ended. You do not need a negative RAT result to return to work or school. Some people can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can coordinate extra support for you if you need it. You may get COVID-19 while you are away from home. If you test positive while travelling, here is what you need to know. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after your initial COVID-19 symptoms. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. It can be hard supporting your tamariki (children) when they need to isolate with COVID-19. The COVID-19 Health Hub has advice on how to make things easier for children and parents. If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand, you will need to isolate for 7 days. Follow the isolation advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can coordinate extra support for you if you need it. You may get COVID-19 while you are away from home. If you test positive while travelling, here is what you need to know. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after your initial COVID-19 symptoms. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. It can be hard supporting your tamariki (children) when they need to isolate with COVID-19. The COVID-19 Health Hub has advice on how to make things easier for children and parents. If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand, you will need to isolate for 7 days. Follow the isolation advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub.
