They can get it 6 months after completing their primary course. If you are 18 or over you can get your booster 3 months after your second dose now. What you need to know If you have COVID-19 Get or report a RAT Household Contacts Close Contacts How to self-isolate Latest case numbers Pre-departure tests to enter NZ When NZ's borders open Face masks Posters Information for disabled people Alternate formats --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home About our COVID-19 response Legislation and key documents --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases History of the COVID-19 Alert System About Unite against COVID-19
Home About this site Contact us Find contact information for the COVID-19 group at the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. I am looking for... Communication and language support COVID-19 support Financial support Report a breach Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- You can find guidance and submit an Official Information Request to the COVID-19 Group on the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet website: How to make an Official Information Act request Find information and advice translated into different languages: Translations Find information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs: Alternate formats Immigration New Zealand can answer questions about travel eligibility and visa categories. Contact Immigration NZ | immigration.govt.nz Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz If you run or own a business, you can find information on the business.govt website: COVID-19: Information for businesses COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) Contact us | business.govt.nz We have a selection of posters available for in the traffic light settings available on this website. You can also get your QR code poster. Download posters Get your QR code poster All our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, can be viewed and download through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email: covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz You will need to contact the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. You can send a query through an online form on the Employment website or call them. Online form | employment.govt.nz Call: 0800 20 90 20 Call 111 immediately. If you have COVID-19, tell them when you ring. You need to contact your care co-ordinator or call Healthline. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19response@health.govt.nz There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a participating vaccination site. How to get your My Vaccine Pass There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact MIQ. You can find contact details on their website. Contact us | miq.govt.nz If you have a health concern after your vaccination, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor. You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19vaccine@health.govt.nz Visit the Work and Income website for urgent financial support and ongoing needs. You can apply for a main benefit online and check your eligibility for food assistance. Work and Income website (external link) 0800 559 009 (MSD General Line) 0800 552 002 (Seniors 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Students) In MyMSD you can check your payments, tell MSD about changes and apply for a benefit or NZ Super: Use MyMSD You can also use the COVID-19 financial support tool on this website to see what support is available to you. Use the financial support tool If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: traffic light settings vaccination or testing requirements for workers managed isolation requirements. Report a breach online Face masks If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements How to report false or misleading information that you see can be found on this website. Report false or misleading information Contact the COVID-19 media team: Email: covid19media@dpmc.govt.nz The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. NZ COVID Tracer app | health.govt.nz Businesses and workplaces are no longer required to display a QR code poster, but can choose to do so. There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Get your QR code poster If you have questions or feedback about the app, QR code posters or any problems using them, you will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Call 0800 800 606 You must enable JavaScript to submit this form --- Section Separator --- Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. --- Section Separator --- If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach --- Section Separator --- You can contact the COVID-19 Group by using our online form above or sending a letter to us. If you are sending us feedback about Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage that you have feedback about. Postal address: COVID-19 Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand
Home COVID-19 vaccines From 7 April, 16 and 17 year olds can get a Pfizer booster 6 months after their second dose. Everyone 18 and over can get their booster 3 months after their second dose now. You might be interested in About the Novavax vaccine My Covid Record Side effects International travel vaccination certificates Vaccine advice for disabled people --- Section Separator --- Find out about how to book your vaccination, walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres, booster doses, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. Find information about COVID-19 vaccination for businesses and workers, including border and MIQ workers. Discover NZ Vaccine Facts, learn about vaccine development, safety and effectiveness, and find resources to download and share. --- Section Separator --- Last updated 11 April 2022 at 1:00 pm You can find more vaccination data on our data and statistics page. Data and statistics COVID (external link) (external link) 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses --- Section Separator --- Boosters and Omicron — Your questions answered Dr Ashley Bloomfield — Get your vaccine booster Dr Jin Russell — 4 reasons to get tamariki immunised against COVID-19 Dr Owen Sinclair — The risks and benefits of immunisation for children Jaki's story — Vaccinating people with needle phobias Dr Nikki Turner — Vaccines and pregnancy --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 The COVID-19 vaccine protects your child, your whānau and your community. It is free and available now for everyone aged 5 and over. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. Like adults, if your child is infected with COVID-19 they may transmit the virus to other people. Immunising tamariki helps protect whānau members whose health makes them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Dr Jin Russell — 4 reasons to get tamariki immunised against COVID-19 Dr Owen Sinclair — The risks and benefits of immunising tamariki Dr Pete Watson — How immunising tamariki helps protect your community --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children and young people who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. Learn more about the effects of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Tamariki aged 5 to 11 can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. They will receive a children’s (paediatric) version of the Pfizer vaccine, with a lower dose and smaller volume. It is also given using a smaller needle. The lower dose was chosen based on a trial that showed the lower dose was safe and had few side effects in this age group. Children are not eligible for a booster or the AstraZeneca vaccine. To be fully protected, children need 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine. We recommend the first and second dose are at least 8 weeks apart. The interval can be shortened to a minimum of 21 days if needed – for example, if the child is starting significant immunosuppression treatment. You will need to discuss this with the child's doctor. It is up to the parent or caregiver to decide when a child gets their first vaccination. If you choose to wait until after they turn 12, they will get the adult vaccine for both doses. If they get their first dose when they are 11, they will get the children's version for both doses — even if they get their second dose after they turn 12. A responsible adult needs to accompany the child to their appointment(s). This can be a parent, an adult family member, trusted family friend, legal power of attorney, or whanaungatanga carer. Consent for vaccination needs to be given by a legal guardian of the child. If the adult who accompanies the child to the appointment is not the child’s legal guardian: the vaccinator will need to verbally confirm by phone with a legal guardian that they consent to the child being vaccinated, or the responsible adult can bring a signed copy of the COVID-19 vaccination consent form completed by a guardian. This is standard consenting process. COVID-19 vaccination consent form [PDF, 227 KB] Even if tamariki have had COVID-19, they should still get any COVID-19 vaccinations they are eligible for. We recommend waiting 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. A gap of 3 months gives their body time to wind back down and get the most benefit from a vaccination. The 3 month interval should only be shortened for tamariki in exceptional circumstances and should be assessed by a doctor or specialist. Tamariki have a good immune response to vaccines, and there is less data available on providing COVID-19 vaccines to children less than 3 months after infection with COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If children and young people who have been vaccinated do develop COVID-19, they are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. For children aged 5 to 11, clinical trial results showed the Pfizer vaccine was 90.7% effective against getting COVID-19 symptoms, and no participants developed severe COVID-19. Dr Lily Fraser — effects of COVID-19 on tamariki Dr Jin Russell — How safe is the vaccination for tamariki? --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is responsible for approving the use of all medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. They only approve a vaccine in Aotearoa once they are satisfied it has met strict standards for safety, efficacy and quality. The trials in 5 to 11-year-olds with a child dose of the Pfizer showed the vaccine was safe, and the side effects were generally mild. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine Research and data on vaccinating children aged 5-11 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Explain that it might hurt for a short time, just like their other childhood immunisations. Tell them there will be a small needle and that they will feel a sharp scratch or sting briefly but then it will be over. They may have a sore arm, fever, headache or feel tired afterwards. It is important to tell them why they are getting vaccinated. Let them know the vaccine will protect them against COVID-19, and protect their family, their grandparents, their community, and other kids at school who may be more at risk from COVID-19 if they catch it. Make sure they know they will need 2 doses. Give them time to ask the vaccinator questions if they have them. Have some games or toys ready so you can distract them during their vaccination and entertain them while you wait for 15 minutes afterwards. Arrange a fun activity or treat to look forward to after the appointment. Tell them that they might feel a bit unwell or a day or two, and arrange to spend some extra time with them if you can. What to expect after your child's vaccination [PDF, 260 KB] --- Section Separator --- Dr Lily talks with tamariki about vaccines Dr Teuila Percival — Explaining the COVID-19 vaccine to children --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand that offer vaccinations for tamariki. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Check the appointment availability map first — it shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. You can choose the child vaccine (5-11s) or adult vaccine (12+) from the dropdown menu. Appointment availability map (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz 0800 28 29 26 It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. It is a good idea to have your child's NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. How to find an NHI number (external link) There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Not all COVID-19 vaccination sites will be offering vaccinations to 5 to 11-year-olds. Find a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre near you --- Section Separator --- If you would like to talk through any question or worries, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The COVID Vaccination Healthline team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori communities | Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination | Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link)
We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Answering your questions Why do I need a booster? Can I get Novavax? Should I get vaccinated if I am pregnant? Does the vaccine work against Omicron? Is it safe for children? Will I get side effects? Will the vaccine stop transmission? --- Section Separator --- Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. In the clinical trials it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against Omicron, a booster is likely offer greater protection by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. We are encouraging everyone who is eligible to get a free booster now. --- Section Separator --- Dr Ashley Bloomfield on Omicron and boosters 4 reasons to get tamariki vaccinated against COVID-19 NZ Vaccine Facts: How the vaccine works against variants of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines needed to be rolled out quickly, but that does not mean safety was compromised. The Pfizer vaccine we are using in New Zealand is held to the same high safety standards as any other medicine. COVID-19 vaccines are the most well-studied vaccines ever made. More than 50% of the world's population have had a COVID-19 vaccine. Nearly 4 million people in Aotearoa have had their second Pfizer vaccine, and over 2.5 million people have had a booster. This means we have lots of data to show the Pfizer vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety. --- Section Separator --- Dr Nikki Turner on the safety of vaccines during pregnancy Dr Ashley Bloomfield on safety and development of the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- You might feel nervous about getting the vaccine, which is normal. A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm, and it will be over very fast. You will then need to stay for at least 15 minutes so we can make sure you do not have an immediate reaction. --- Section Separator --- What to expect if you have a needle phobia How to get a vaccine and are there side effects? Vaccinator Priscilla shares her story about vaccinating her community --- Section Separator --- If you have another question, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine resources Fact sheets --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 150 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] Everything you need to know about Novavax [PDF, 321 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 360 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read --- Section Separator --- An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 150 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] Everything you need to know about Novavax [PDF, 321 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 360 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] --- Section Separator --- Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 542 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 668 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB] We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. Watch all our campaign videos (external link) COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. --- Section Separator --- Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 542 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 668 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. --- Section Separator --- Watch all our campaign videos (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Unite against COVID-19 Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Information for Māori communities — Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination information — Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Starting a conversation with someone who is vaccine hesitant — Rachel Prebble How to have a positive conversation about hesitancy — Rachel Prebble Talking to Whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine — Dr Hinemoa Elder --- Section Separator --- It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Unite against COVID-19 Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Information for Māori communities — Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination information — Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. --- Section Separator --- Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] --- Section Separator --- Starting a conversation with someone who is vaccine hesitant — Rachel Prebble How to have a positive conversation about hesitancy — Rachel Prebble Talking to Whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine — Dr Hinemoa Elder --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination If you are pregnant or breastfeeding --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. It is recommended that pregnant people receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get your booster at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster at least 6 months after completing your primary course. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor (GP). Get your vaccine booster Sarah, 25 weeks pregnant, on vaccine hesitancy Doctor Nikki on pregnancy, COVID-19, and the vaccine If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Side effects Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. It is recommended that pregnant people receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get your booster at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster at least 6 months after completing your primary course. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor (GP). Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Sarah, 25 weeks pregnant, on vaccine hesitancy Doctor Nikki on pregnancy, COVID-19, and the vaccine --- Section Separator --- If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Side effects Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Vaccine advice for disabled people Getting a COVID-19 vaccine protects you, your whānau and your community. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. Children and young people with disabilities can get vaccinated at some accessible sites with their whānau. Learn more about vaccinations for children If you are aged 18 and over, and it has been 3 months since your last dose, you can book your booster online now through Book My Vaccine (external link) . Rangatahi aged 16 and 17 can get a free Pfizer booster 6 months after completing their primary course. You can walk in to a vaccination centre now, or book online from Thursday 14 April. Learn more about booster doses --- Section Separator --- If you are worried about getting the vaccine, you can talk to a trained advisor in the Healthline disability team. The team is made up of people who have experience of a disability themselves, or who have worked with the disabled community. They will support you, your whānau or someone you care for and answer any questions you may have about: accessibility arrangements and getting mobility assistance at different vaccination centres getting your vaccination safely home vaccinations any effects the vaccine may have on you or your medications. The disability team is available Monday to Friday, from 8am to 8pm. Call: 0800 28 29 26 and push 2 Free text: 8988 Email: accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz --- Section Separator --- Using My Vaccine Pass is no longer a legal requirement, but some businesses, events and venues may choose to still use it. This means you may need to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter some places. You can still receive essential care even if you do not have a My Vaccine Pass. Your care and support workers must continue to be fully vaccinated and boosted. This is so they can keep you safe, and reduce the risk of passing COVID-19 to you. All health workers also need to be fully vaccinated and boosted. Find out more about the changes to My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- If you have decided you want to get the vaccine, it is easy to get vaccinated. You can get your vaccination at: an accessible site your doctor or local pharmacy any other vaccination centre near you. You can also talk to, text or email a trained advisor to discuss whether a home vaccination is right for you. Some vaccination centres are fully accessible. Your family, whānau and support workers are also welcome to get their vaccinations with you. Map of vaccination centres around Aotearoa New Zealand | karawhiua.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can book your vaccination by: calling the COVID Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and pushing '2' to speak to the disability team. The COVID Healthline is open from 8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday. using the free text option on 8988 . emailing accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz using Book My Vaccine (external link) . The website is accessible and can be used with a screen reader. The disability team can also help you book an appointment for your tamariki at an accessible site. --- Section Separator --- You can take a support person with you when you get your vaccination. This can be a carer, or someone else you trust. When you get to the vaccination site, you will need to sign in. If you need an NZSL interpreter or information in an accessible format, please ask. When it is your time to get vaccinated, the staff will ask you whether it is okay to give you the vaccine. If you say yes, this is called consent. If you cannot give consent, someone who is allowed to make decisions for you can give consent for you. The vaccinator may also ask you questions about how you are feeling, and what medication you take. It is normal to feel scared or worried. Ask the vaccinator if you have any questions. You will need to wait for 15 minutes after your vaccination. If this is hard for you, ask if you can wait somewhere else. --- Section Separator --- Omicron and the booster dose — Your questions answered Why it's important for disabled tamariki to get the COVID-19 vaccine Our vaccination journey — Victoria and Arlo My vaccination journey — Nick My vaccination journey — Cyrus What to expect if you have a needle phobia --- Section Separator --- You can choose to get the vaccine. You can say yes or no or ask for help making your decision. For disabled people or people with an impairment, the journey to get vaccinated may look a little different. We have created the Manaakitanga Journey online tool to help support disabled people to get vaccinated. The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [DOCX, 66 KB] The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [PDF, 539 KB] The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [PNG, 1 MB] Toolkit for organisations working with disabled people [PDF, 2.5 MB] Read our answers to some of the most commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine Read vaccine advice if you have a health condition Use the decision making tool to help. You can fill in the tool yourself and take it with you to your vaccination appointment. Make a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) Talk to your whānau or a trusted support person. Talk to your doctor. Your doctor is the health professional who knows you best. You might want to ask your doctor questions about the COVID-19 vaccine — for example how the vaccine may affect any health problems you have, or if there are any risks for you. If you are supporting someone with a disability to make a decision about getting the COVID-19 vaccine, you can use one of the supported decision making tools. Choose the guidance tool or combination of tools that best suits the person you are supporting. Tools for supporting disabled people to make a decision about the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination If you have a health condition --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. You can have the third primary dose at least 8 weeks after your second dose. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. If it is 8 weeks since your second dose, and your doctor offers the COVID-19 vaccination, they can give you the third dose immediately. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. Learn more about COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people — Ministry of Health (external link) If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you have already booked your booster dose with a 4 month gap, you can keep your original appointment, or change it. You can get a free Pfizer booster from any walk-in vaccination site without booking if: you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 6 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). From Thursday 14 April, you can book your booster through Book My Vaccine. The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster 3 months after receiving their third primary dose ( 6 months if you are 16 or 17). Get your vaccine booster If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine. What the AstraZeneca vaccine contains What is in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. --- Section Separator --- If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. You can have the third primary dose at least 8 weeks after your second dose. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. If it is 8 weeks since your second dose, and your doctor offers the COVID-19 vaccination, they can give you the third dose immediately. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. Learn more about COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you have already booked your booster dose with a 4 month gap, you can keep your original appointment, or change it. You can get a free Pfizer booster from any walk-in vaccination site without booking if: you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 6 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). From Thursday 14 April, you can book your booster through Book My Vaccine. The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster 3 months after receiving their third primary dose ( 6 months if you are 16 or 17). Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine. What the AstraZeneca vaccine contains What is in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination About the AstraZeneca vaccine --- Section Separator --- The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and older who either wants a different option or if you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. Both the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines will protect you against the symptoms of COVID-19. Both vaccines are free. The AstraZeneca vaccine needs 2 doses. You will need to wait at least 4 weeks before getting your second dose. To have the best protection, you need to get both doses of the vaccine. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety by Medsafe. Medsafe only grants approval for using a vaccine in Aotearoa once it is satisfied the international evidence shows benefits outweigh the risks. There have been no shortcuts taken in granting approval. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been used successfully by millions worldwide. You should not get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you: have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients have had a major blood clot at the same time as having low levels of platelets (thrombocytopenia) after receiving any COVID-19 vaccine have had Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS – a condition causing fluid leakage from small blood vessels). You cannot get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you are under 18 years old. The AstraZeneca vaccine is injected into a muscle (usually in the upper arm). The second injection can be given between 4 and 12 weeks after the first injection. If you get AstraZeneca for the first dose then you should also get it (and not the Pfizer vaccine) for the second dose. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination. There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. Pregnancy and the Pfizer vaccine The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The AstraZeneca vaccine stimulates the body’s immune system. It causes the body to produce antibodies to help fight the virus. This will help to protect you against COVID-19 in the future. None of the ingredients in this vaccine can cause COVID-19. COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. In the clinical trials, the AstraZeneca vaccine gave 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. It also shows effectiveness against hospital admission of at least 80% after a single dose. For the best protection, you need 2 doses. As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines There are some side effects that are very rare but are more serious. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. If you experience any of these symptoms, seek medical attention immediately. AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Assessing and approving the vaccines | Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca | Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) --- Section Separator --- The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and older who either wants a different option or if you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. Both the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines will protect you against the symptoms of COVID-19. Both vaccines are free. The AstraZeneca vaccine needs 2 doses. You will need to wait at least 4 weeks before getting your second dose. To have the best protection, you need to get both doses of the vaccine. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety by Medsafe. Medsafe only grants approval for using a vaccine in Aotearoa once it is satisfied the international evidence shows benefits outweigh the risks. There have been no shortcuts taken in granting approval. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been used successfully by millions worldwide. --- Section Separator --- You should not get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you: have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients have had a major blood clot at the same time as having low levels of platelets (thrombocytopenia) after receiving any COVID-19 vaccine have had Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS – a condition causing fluid leakage from small blood vessels). You cannot get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you are under 18 years old. The AstraZeneca vaccine is injected into a muscle (usually in the upper arm). The second injection can be given between 4 and 12 weeks after the first injection. If you get AstraZeneca for the first dose then you should also get it (and not the Pfizer vaccine) for the second dose. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination. There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. Pregnancy and the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The AstraZeneca vaccine stimulates the body’s immune system. It causes the body to produce antibodies to help fight the virus. This will help to protect you against COVID-19 in the future. None of the ingredients in this vaccine can cause COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. In the clinical trials, the AstraZeneca vaccine gave 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. It also shows effectiveness against hospital admission of at least 80% after a single dose. For the best protection, you need 2 doses. --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines There are some side effects that are very rare but are more serious. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. If you experience any of these symptoms, seek medical attention immediately. --- Section Separator --- AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Assessing and approving the vaccines | Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca | Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination About the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. It does not contain any live, dead or deactivated viruses. It does not affect or interact with your DNA or genes. If you are aged 18 years or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The vaccine sends a set of instructions to teach your body how to fight the COVID-19 virus. With these instructions, your body learns to recognise the COVID-19 virus and use antibodies against it. Antibodies stop the virus from infecting your cells and help to kill it. If you come into contact with the COVID-19 virus in the future, your body will have the right tools to protect itself so you are less likely to get sick. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. We know the Pfizer vaccine works because it went through months of clinical testing with more than 40,000 people before it was approved for use. Clinical trials compared the results of a vaccinated group with another group who received a placebo (salt solution). In the clinical trials, it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. COVID-19: Vaccine clinical trials and testing – Ministry of Health (external link) Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) This is the first time scientists and governments from around the world have united to develop a vaccine. This global collaboration meant vaccines were developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Scientists had a head start because of all the research already carried out on related viruses. Governments, private companies and funding agencies have spent a lot of money. This means more could be done in a short space of time. Researchers and governments from different countries shared information and worked together. More people than usual volunteered for clinical trials. Some clinical trials were done at the same time, instead of one after another. Large manufacturing plants were built so more vaccines can be made faster than was possible before. Researchers could show the vaccine worked sooner than usual, because there are so many cases of COVID-19. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. Medsafe has given the Pfizer vaccine provisional approval (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It reviews data from ongoing clinical trials around the world, and reports from healthcare professionals and people who have been vaccinated. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects It is normal to have questions about taking a new medicine. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine. You can protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Learn how to spot misinformation and scams COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. It does not contain any live, dead or deactivated viruses. It does not affect or interact with your DNA or genes. If you are aged 18 years or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine --- Section Separator --- The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The vaccine sends a set of instructions to teach your body how to fight the COVID-19 virus. With these instructions, your body learns to recognise the COVID-19 virus and use antibodies against it. Antibodies stop the virus from infecting your cells and help to kill it. If you come into contact with the COVID-19 virus in the future, your body will have the right tools to protect itself so you are less likely to get sick. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. We know the Pfizer vaccine works because it went through months of clinical testing with more than 40,000 people before it was approved for use. Clinical trials compared the results of a vaccinated group with another group who received a placebo (salt solution). In the clinical trials, it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. COVID-19: Vaccine clinical trials and testing – Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) --- Section Separator --- This is the first time scientists and governments from around the world have united to develop a vaccine. This global collaboration meant vaccines were developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Scientists had a head start because of all the research already carried out on related viruses. Governments, private companies and funding agencies have spent a lot of money. This means more could be done in a short space of time. Researchers and governments from different countries shared information and worked together. More people than usual volunteered for clinical trials. Some clinical trials were done at the same time, instead of one after another. Large manufacturing plants were built so more vaccines can be made faster than was possible before. Researchers could show the vaccine worked sooner than usual, because there are so many cases of COVID-19. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. Medsafe has given the Pfizer vaccine provisional approval (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It reviews data from ongoing clinical trials around the world, and reports from healthcare professionals and people who have been vaccinated. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- It is normal to have questions about taking a new medicine. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine. You can protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Learn how to spot misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Find out about how to book your vaccination, walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres, booster doses, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a vaccination at any traffic light setting. Whether you get the Pfizer vaccine or the AstraZeneca vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection from COVID-19. Learn about booster doses for COVID-19 vaccines, when you need one and how to get it. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a vaccination at any traffic light setting. Whether you get the Pfizer vaccine or the AstraZeneca vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection from COVID-19. Learn about booster doses for COVID-19 vaccines, when you need one and how to get it. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments.
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your COVID-19 vaccination Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a vaccination at any traffic light setting. What you need to know Vaccinations for 5 to 11 year olds Getting a booster Getting your second dose --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 or over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or the Novavax vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine About the Novavax vaccine | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) It will take around 5 minutes to book your appointments. Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. Appointment availability map (external link) Book My Vaccine will show a list of vaccination centres where AstraZeneca is available. Not all sites will have it, as Pfizer is the main vaccine we are using in New Zealand. You must be aged 18 or over to get AstraZeneca. Book My Vaccine will show a list of vaccination centres where Novavax is available. It will be available at limited locations from Monday 14 March 2022. If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz --- Section Separator --- It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. 0800 28 29 26 It will take around 15 minutes to book your appointments. It is a good idea to have your NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. Find your NHI --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Note: Not all sites stock the Pfizer vaccine for children aged 5 to 11, so please check before you go. --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand that offer vaccinations for tamariki. How to book a vaccination for 5 to 11 year olds --- Section Separator --- If you need to be reminded of the time, date or venue for your appointments, you can try the following. If you booked with your email address or mobile number, your appointment details will have been sent to you. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. If you know your booking reference, you can check your appointment details through Book My Vaccine. Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Manage your appointments — Book My Vaccine (external link) They will be able to find your appointment details — you do not need to know your booking reference number. Call 0800 28 29 26 . --- Section Separator --- A National Health Index (NHI) number is a unique number that is given to each person using health and disability support services in New Zealand. You can find your NHI number on: a prescription or prescription receipt, a prescription medicine label a hospital letter an x-ray or test result your patient portal (ManageMyHealth). --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination and children Vaccine advice if you have a health condition Vaccine advice if you are pregnant or breastfeeding Support and information for disabled people
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Rangatahi aged 16 or 17 can get a COVID-19 booster 6 months after completing their primary course. You can go into any walk-in vaccination site without booking, and you can book your booster through Book My Vaccine from Thursday 14 April. If you have had COVID-19, you should wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you have already booked your booster dose with a 4 month gap, you can keep your original appointment, or change it. You can get a free Pfizer booster from any walk-in vaccination site without booking if: you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 6 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Walk-in vaccination centres From Thursday 14 April, you can book your booster through Book My Vaccine. To find out how long it has been since your second dose: view your vaccination records on My Covid Record (external link) call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 Visit a walk-in vaccination centre: Find a vaccination centre Book over the phone: 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). Book online through Book My Vaccine (external link) . Rangatahi aged 16 or 17 can book their Pfizer booster from 14 April. When you arrive for your booster, the date of your last vaccination will be checked in the COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). We are encouraging everyone who is eligible to get a free booster now. Current evidence shows your protection against infection after 2 doses slowly decreases over time. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. A booster also helps reduce the chance of more serious infection, and it will be less likely that you need hospitalisation. About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are pregnant and aged 16 years or older, it is recommended you receive a booster of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect you and your baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get it at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get it after 6 months . You should discuss the timing of a booster with your midwife, obstetrician or general practitioner. Vaccine advice if you are pregnant or breastfeeding If you have tested positive for COVID-19 but you still need a booster dose, we recommend you wait at least 3 months after you have recovered to get your booster. Waiting 3 months provides an increased immune response and better protection if you become re-infected with COVID-19. The best timing for the booster dose may be different for everyone. We recommend you speak to your doctor or Heathline on 0800 358 5453 for advice before you get your booster. The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People 18 or over who are eligible for a third primary dose, can access a booster dose 3 months after receiving their third primary dose. If you are 16 or 17, you need to wait 6 months until you can get your booster dose. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition The Pfizer vaccine is the main vaccine being used in New Zealand for boosters, even if you had a different vaccine for your earlier doses. If you are 16 or 17, you can only get the Pfizer booster. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine An AstraZeneca booster is now available 3 months after the second dose for those aged 18 or over, but you will need a prescription. You can get a prescription before your appointment with your preferred doctor, or from a vaccinating AstraZeneca clinic — however not all clinics will be able to provide a prescription . It is free to visit the doctor for an AstraZeneca booster prescription. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. Side effects The Vaccination Order makes it mandatory for workers in critical workforces to also receive a booster dose. The timeframes for workers to get a booster still remains the same. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- Rangatahi aged 16 or 17 can get a COVID-19 booster 6 months after completing their primary course. You can go into any walk-in vaccination site without booking, and you can book your booster through Book My Vaccine from Thursday 14 April. If you have had COVID-19, you should wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you have already booked your booster dose with a 4 month gap, you can keep your original appointment, or change it. You can get a free Pfizer booster from any walk-in vaccination site without booking if: you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 6 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Walk-in vaccination centres From Thursday 14 April, you can book your booster through Book My Vaccine. To find out how long it has been since your second dose: view your vaccination records on My Covid Record (external link) call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- Visit a walk-in vaccination centre: Find a vaccination centre Book over the phone: 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). Book online through Book My Vaccine (external link) . Rangatahi aged 16 or 17 can book their Pfizer booster from 14 April. When you arrive for your booster, the date of your last vaccination will be checked in the COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). --- Section Separator --- We are encouraging everyone who is eligible to get a free booster now. Current evidence shows your protection against infection after 2 doses slowly decreases over time. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. A booster also helps reduce the chance of more serious infection, and it will be less likely that you need hospitalisation. About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are pregnant and aged 16 years or older, it is recommended you receive a booster of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect you and your baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get it at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get it after 6 months . You should discuss the timing of a booster with your midwife, obstetrician or general practitioner. Vaccine advice if you are pregnant or breastfeeding If you have tested positive for COVID-19 but you still need a booster dose, we recommend you wait at least 3 months after you have recovered to get your booster. Waiting 3 months provides an increased immune response and better protection if you become re-infected with COVID-19. The best timing for the booster dose may be different for everyone. We recommend you speak to your doctor or Heathline on 0800 358 5453 for advice before you get your booster. The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People 18 or over who are eligible for a third primary dose, can access a booster dose 3 months after receiving their third primary dose. If you are 16 or 17, you need to wait 6 months until you can get your booster dose. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is the main vaccine being used in New Zealand for boosters, even if you had a different vaccine for your earlier doses. If you are 16 or 17, you can only get the Pfizer booster. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine An AstraZeneca booster is now available 3 months after the second dose for those aged 18 or over, but you will need a prescription. You can get a prescription before your appointment with your preferred doctor, or from a vaccinating AstraZeneca clinic — however not all clinics will be able to provide a prescription . It is free to visit the doctor for an AstraZeneca booster prescription. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. Side effects --- Section Separator --- The Vaccination Order makes it mandatory for workers in critical workforces to also receive a booster dose. The timeframes for workers to get a booster still remains the same. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster What to expect when you get your vaccination
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your second dose --- Section Separator --- The standard gap between doses of the Pfizer vaccine is 3 weeks or more . For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more . The standard gap between doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine is 4 weeks or more . The Novavax vaccine needs 2 doses. You will need to wait at least 3 weeks before getting your second dose. Follow the same steps as for booking your first dose, either online or over the phone. You will be asked if you have had your first dose, and which type of vaccine it was. Book through Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 You can also choose to get your second dose without booking an appointment at a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised will be eligible to get a third primary dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. This third dose will be optional, but is recommended. Find more information on how to get a third primary dose Boosters Side effects --- Section Separator --- The standard gap between doses of the Pfizer vaccine is 3 weeks or more . For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more . The standard gap between doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine is 4 weeks or more . The Novavax vaccine needs 2 doses. You will need to wait at least 3 weeks before getting your second dose. --- Section Separator --- Follow the same steps as for booking your first dose, either online or over the phone. You will be asked if you have had your first dose, and which type of vaccine it was. Book through Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 You can also choose to get your second dose without booking an appointment at a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. --- Section Separator --- Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised will be eligible to get a third primary dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. This third dose will be optional, but is recommended. Find more information on how to get a third primary dose --- Section Separator --- Boosters Side effects --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster What to expect when you get your vaccination
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. The Pfizer vaccine is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are aged 18 or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine About the Novavax vaccine | health.govt.nz (external link) Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects Whether you get the Pfizer, AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection. The standard gap between doses is: 3 weeks or more for the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines 4 weeks or more for the AstraZeneca vaccine. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap is 8 weeks or more between doses. Learn more about getting your second dose Clinical trials found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection and the AstraZeneca vaccine 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face mask. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Healthy habits --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are aged 18 or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine About the Novavax vaccine | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- Whether you get the Pfizer, AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection. The standard gap between doses is: 3 weeks or more for the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines 4 weeks or more for the AstraZeneca vaccine. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap is 8 weeks or more between doses. Learn more about getting your second dose --- Section Separator --- Clinical trials found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection and the AstraZeneca vaccine 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face mask. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Side effects
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any of these new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is ‘skipping beats’ If you feel any of these symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor — there will be no charge for the consultation. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111, and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | health.govt.nz (external link) If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. --- Section Separator --- There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any of these new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is ‘skipping beats’ If you feel any of these symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor — there will be no charge for the consultation. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111, and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. --- Section Separator --- Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. --- Section Separator --- If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. --- Section Separator --- What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Side effects
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- Some vaccine mandates for workers have been removed. Government vaccine mandates will now only apply to workplaces that support vulnerable populations , or who work in high-risk environments where spread would be rapid or exposure to new variants is high. These workplaces will need to continue to require their workers to be vaccinated and boosted. Wo rkers that are still covered by a government vaccine mandate include : Health and disability sector workers — including aged care workers Prison staff Border and MIQ workers Certain roles within the following workforces may also be captured by government vaccine mandates, if they are working in an environment where a mandate is required — for example, alongside paramedics or other health workers. NZ Police NZ Defence Force Fire and Emergency New Zealand. Workers covered by a government vaccine mandate are required to be vaccinated because they come into close contact with people who are likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. Border workers , i ncluding those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports must be vaccinated because they are likely to be exposed to new variants. COVID-19 booster vaccinations are also mandated for workforces covered by the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (Vaccinations Order). This means workers in these sectors must get a booster 6 months (183 days) after they complete their primary vaccination course. If eligible, we recommend you get your booster after 3 months. You must be 18 years or older to receive a booster dose. If you are under 18 years old and have had your primary vaccination course, you can continue to work. 8 vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for workers who fall under a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination order. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) Novavax (Nuvaxovid, NVX-CoC2373) Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) — only 1 dose is required for this vaccine. For all other vaccines, the primary course of vaccination means 2 doses. If you have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, you will need to have a second dose. You are able to get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as your second dose. Novavax is only approved as a primary course of vaccination and not as a booster dose. However, the Novavax vaccine is available as a booster on prescription from an approved health professional. Workers may be able to get an exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Depending on the type of work done, there are different exemption grounds that may apply. For example, for an exemption on medical grounds, workers will need to apply to the Ministry of Health. Exemptions for border and MIQ workers | transport.govt.nz (external link) Medical exemptions for workers who have recently recovered from COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) Exemptions for the border, health and prison workers | health.govt.nz (external link) If your employees are not covered by the vaccine mandate, you can choose if you want to require your employees to be fully vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccinations can only be used as a measure if the risk of contracting and transmitting COVID-19 at work is higher than it is in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read the guidance on Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand for advice. COVID-19 controls at work – employer vaccination requirements | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) Find out where and how to get your COVID-19 vaccination and booster dose. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Some vaccine mandates for workers have been removed. Government vaccine mandates will now only apply to workplaces that support vulnerable populations , or who work in high-risk environments where spread would be rapid or exposure to new variants is high. These workplaces will need to continue to require their workers to be vaccinated and boosted. --- Section Separator --- Wo rkers that are still covered by a government vaccine mandate include : Health and disability sector workers — including aged care workers Prison staff Border and MIQ workers Certain roles within the following workforces may also be captured by government vaccine mandates, if they are working in an environment where a mandate is required — for example, alongside paramedics or other health workers. NZ Police NZ Defence Force Fire and Emergency New Zealand. Workers covered by a government vaccine mandate are required to be vaccinated because they come into close contact with people who are likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. Border workers , i ncluding those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports must be vaccinated because they are likely to be exposed to new variants. COVID-19 booster vaccinations are also mandated for workforces covered by the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (Vaccinations Order). This means workers in these sectors must get a booster 6 months (183 days) after they complete their primary vaccination course. If eligible, we recommend you get your booster after 3 months. You must be 18 years or older to receive a booster dose. If you are under 18 years old and have had your primary vaccination course, you can continue to work. --- Section Separator --- 8 vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for workers who fall under a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination order. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) Novavax (Nuvaxovid, NVX-CoC2373) Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) — only 1 dose is required for this vaccine. For all other vaccines, the primary course of vaccination means 2 doses. If you have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, you will need to have a second dose. You are able to get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as your second dose. Novavax is only approved as a primary course of vaccination and not as a booster dose. However, the Novavax vaccine is available as a booster on prescription from an approved health professional. --- Section Separator --- Workers may be able to get an exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Depending on the type of work done, there are different exemption grounds that may apply. For example, for an exemption on medical grounds, workers will need to apply to the Ministry of Health. Exemptions for border and MIQ workers | transport.govt.nz (external link) Medical exemptions for workers who have recently recovered from COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) Exemptions for the border, health and prison workers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your employees are not covered by the vaccine mandate, you can choose if you want to require your employees to be fully vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccinations can only be used as a measure if the risk of contracting and transmitting COVID-19 at work is higher than it is in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read the guidance on Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand for advice. COVID-19 controls at work – employer vaccination requirements | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find out where and how to get your COVID-19 vaccination and booster dose. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- How to get a vaccination Vaccinations and work Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Vaccine passes and certificates 2 shots for summer
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine passes and certificates Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. --- Section Separator --- The Government no longer requires My Vaccine Pass to be used to access businesses, events and services. Businesses can still choose to require My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry if there are health and safety reasons for doing so. Some workers are still required to be vaccinated. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- There are 3 official records you can use as proof of your vaccination status — My Vaccine Pass, My Vaccine Record, and an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. You can use My Covid Record to access your COVID-19 vaccination records, view your COVID-19 test results, and report a rapid antigen test (RAT) result. --- Section Separator --- There are 3 official records you can use as proof of your vaccination status — My Vaccine Pass, My Vaccine Record, and an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. You can use My Covid Record to access your COVID-19 vaccination records, view your COVID-19 test results, and report a rapid antigen test (RAT) result.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine passes and certificates How to use My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: driver licence passport birth certificate (from any year) or citizenship certificate. Or an Australian: passport birth certificate. My Covid Record (external link) If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, need help with My Covid Record, or have a query about your COVID-19 records, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Phone: 0800 222 478 Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Your guide to signing up and using My Covid Record [PDF, 301 KB] You can sign up for My Covid Record on behalf of someone else, if you have their permission. They will need their own unique email address. If they do not have an email address, call 0800 222 478 for help. It will help to have their NHI number ready. We take your privacy seriously. Only you can access your secure My Covid Record. Your account must be verified with a valid form of identification so we know it is actually you. By keeping your account safe, no one else will be able to access your records. You can use My Covid Record to: get proof of your vaccination status see the results of any PCR tests taken in the last 90 days report a rapid antigen test (RAT) result for you or someone else. You can request 3 free official records of your COVID-19 vaccination status through My Covid Record. My Vaccine Pass — which you can use as proof o f your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. My Vaccine Pass is a QR code which you can add to a digital wallet, like your phone. My Vaccine Record — which has more detailed information about your COVID-19 vaccination recording including batch numb ers, dose number, vaccine type and any overseas vaccinations that have been added to your health record. International Travel Vaccination Certificate — which you can use to travel overseas. How to get proof of your vaccination status through My Covid Record You can see your recent PCR test results on My Covid Record. When you log into your account, you will be able to view all the test results you have had in the last 90 days. If you have tested for COVID-19 using your own RAT, you can report it online using My Covid Record. You can also report a RAT on behalf of someone else. You can only report one RAT per person in a 12 hour period. How to use My Covid Record to report your RAT results Accessing your NHI number as a QR code will make visiting places like COVID-19 testing sites quick and easy, as it allows us to scan the QR code to identify you. --- Section Separator --- Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: driver licence passport birth certificate (from any year) or citizenship certificate. Or an Australian: passport birth certificate. My Covid Record (external link) If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, need help with My Covid Record, or have a query about your COVID-19 records, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Phone: 0800 222 478 Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Your guide to signing up and using My Covid Record [PDF, 301 KB] You can sign up for My Covid Record on behalf of someone else, if you have their permission. They will need their own unique email address. If they do not have an email address, call 0800 222 478 for help. It will help to have their NHI number ready. We take your privacy seriously. Only you can access your secure My Covid Record. Your account must be verified with a valid form of identification so we know it is actually you. By keeping your account safe, no one else will be able to access your records. --- Section Separator --- You can use My Covid Record to: get proof of your vaccination status see the results of any PCR tests taken in the last 90 days report a rapid antigen test (RAT) result for you or someone else. --- Section Separator --- You can request 3 free official records of your COVID-19 vaccination status through My Covid Record. My Vaccine Pass — which you can use as proof o f your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. My Vaccine Pass is a QR code which you can add to a digital wallet, like your phone. My Vaccine Record — which has more detailed information about your COVID-19 vaccination recording including batch numb ers, dose number, vaccine type and any overseas vaccinations that have been added to your health record. International Travel Vaccination Certificate — which you can use to travel overseas. How to get proof of your vaccination status through My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- You can see your recent PCR test results on My Covid Record. When you log into your account, you will be able to view all the test results you have had in the last 90 days. If you have tested for COVID-19 using your own RAT, you can report it online using My Covid Record. You can also report a RAT on behalf of someone else. You can only report one RAT per person in a 12 hour period. How to use My Covid Record to report your RAT results --- Section Separator --- Accessing your NHI number as a QR code will make visiting places like COVID-19 testing sites quick and easy, as it allows us to scan the QR code to identify you. --- Section Separator --- Proof of your vaccination status How to use My Covid Record
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine passes and certificates Proof of your vaccination status --- Section Separator --- The Government no longer requires My Vaccine Pass to be used to access businesses, events and services. Businesses can still choose to require My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry if there are health and safety reasons for doing so. Some workers are still required to be vaccinated. Vaccinations and work There are 3 ways to show proof of your vaccinations: My Vaccine Pass — which you can use as proof o f your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. My Vaccine Pass is a QR code which you can add to a digital wallet, like your phone. My Vaccine Record — which has more detailed information about your COVID-19 vaccinations including batch numb ers, dose number, vaccine type and any overseas vaccinations that have been added to your health record. International Travel Vaccination Certificate — which you can use to travel overseas. Even though My Vaccine Pass is no longer legally required, we are encouraging everyone to keep a copy of your My Vaccine Pass in case businesses ask for it. If you want to enter a business or access an event or service where My Vaccine Pass is required as a condition of entry, you may be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass. All My Vaccine Passes will expire 6 months from the date of issue, or on 1 June 2022, whichever comes sooner. Boosters are not currently required to get a My Vaccine Pass. Anyone aged 12 and over can get a My Vaccine Pass if they: have had 2 doses of a COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand — this can include a combination, for example, one dose of Pfizer and one dose of Novavax, or been vaccinated overseas with an approved vaccine, or have a medical exemption. How to get a My Vaccine Pass If you were vaccinated overseas, you can get a My Vaccine Pass by following the steps outlined by the Ministry of Health. Overseas vaccinations and My Vaccine Pass | Ministry of Health NZ (external link) Businesses can choose to require people to show their My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry. It is up to each business to decide what is appropriate, taking into account the health and safety of their workers and customers. Businesses can do this as long as: they do not breach any contractual restrictions, for example in a lease or under a franchise agreement they do not ask for My Vaccine Pass in settings that are currently prohibited from doing so, for example supermarkets, pharmacies, public transport and education services. This is to ensure everyone can continue to access these key services. Businesses can also continue to use the NZ Pass Verifier app to check My Vaccine Passes. Requiring My Vaccine Pass for entry | business.govt.nz (external link) More information about NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) Businesses cannot ask children under 12 years and 3 months for a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Record is a document which shows all the COVID-19 vaccinations you have had that are recorded on the Covid Immunisation Register (CIR). It includes details of your primary and booster doses. It can be used: as evidence of your vaccinations if required by an employer, including under the New Zealand vaccine mandate alongside your International Travel Certificate. My Vaccine Record cannot be used instead of a My Vaccine Pass or an International Travel Certificate if you are going overseas. More information about My Vaccine Record | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are travelling overseas and you need to provide proof of your vaccination status, you will need an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of a COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can request one. The details on your International Travel Vaccination Certificate must match your passport. You can review your personal details when you request the certificate. These certificates comply with EU Digital COVID Certificate standards. You will also need to meet all immigration and entry requirements for the country you are travelling to, for example some countries may also require proof of a negative pre-departure test. Before travelling, check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Your International Travel Vaccination Certificate will have a QR code that will be scanned when you are travelling. It will include details of the COVID-19 vaccinations you have had administered in New Zealand. You can save this certificate on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. This certificate is valid for 12 months. There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass, My Vaccine Record or International Travel Vaccination Certificate : online through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 222 478 in person at a participating vaccination site. 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the ‘Passes and certificates’ section, select ‘Request pass or certificate’. 3. The ‘Select who this pass or certificate is for’ will open. Select either ‘Myself’ or ‘Someone else’. 4. The ‘Select a pass or certificate’ option will appear. Select ‘My Vaccine Pass' or ‘International Travel Vaccination Certificate.' 5. You will then be prompted to enter details including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your My Vaccine Pass by email within 24 hours. 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. Select 'Get a copy of your vaccinations'. 3. You will then be prompted to enter your email address. Your Vaccine Record will be emailed to you within 24 hours. How to use My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- The Government no longer requires My Vaccine Pass to be used to access businesses, events and services. Businesses can still choose to require My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry if there are health and safety reasons for doing so. Some workers are still required to be vaccinated. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to show proof of your vaccinations: My Vaccine Pass — which you can use as proof o f your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. My Vaccine Pass is a QR code which you can add to a digital wallet, like your phone. My Vaccine Record — which has more detailed information about your COVID-19 vaccinations including batch numb ers, dose number, vaccine type and any overseas vaccinations that have been added to your health record. International Travel Vaccination Certificate — which you can use to travel overseas. --- Section Separator --- Even though My Vaccine Pass is no longer legally required, we are encouraging everyone to keep a copy of your My Vaccine Pass in case businesses ask for it. If you want to enter a business or access an event or service where My Vaccine Pass is required as a condition of entry, you may be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass. All My Vaccine Passes will expire 6 months from the date of issue, or on 1 June 2022, whichever comes sooner. Boosters are not currently required to get a My Vaccine Pass. Anyone aged 12 and over can get a My Vaccine Pass if they: have had 2 doses of a COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand — this can include a combination, for example, one dose of Pfizer and one dose of Novavax, or been vaccinated overseas with an approved vaccine, or have a medical exemption. How to get a My Vaccine Pass If you were vaccinated overseas, you can get a My Vaccine Pass by following the steps outlined by the Ministry of Health. Overseas vaccinations and My Vaccine Pass | Ministry of Health NZ (external link) Businesses can choose to require people to show their My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry. It is up to each business to decide what is appropriate, taking into account the health and safety of their workers and customers. Businesses can do this as long as: they do not breach any contractual restrictions, for example in a lease or under a franchise agreement they do not ask for My Vaccine Pass in settings that are currently prohibited from doing so, for example supermarkets, pharmacies, public transport and education services. This is to ensure everyone can continue to access these key services. Businesses can also continue to use the NZ Pass Verifier app to check My Vaccine Passes. Requiring My Vaccine Pass for entry | business.govt.nz (external link) More information about NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) Businesses cannot ask children under 12 years and 3 months for a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Record is a document which shows all the COVID-19 vaccinations you have had that are recorded on the Covid Immunisation Register (CIR). It includes details of your primary and booster doses. It can be used: as evidence of your vaccinations if required by an employer, including under the New Zealand vaccine mandate alongside your International Travel Certificate. My Vaccine Record cannot be used instead of a My Vaccine Pass or an International Travel Certificate if you are going overseas. More information about My Vaccine Record | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling overseas and you need to provide proof of your vaccination status, you will need an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of a COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can request one. The details on your International Travel Vaccination Certificate must match your passport. You can review your personal details when you request the certificate. These certificates comply with EU Digital COVID Certificate standards. You will also need to meet all immigration and entry requirements for the country you are travelling to, for example some countries may also require proof of a negative pre-departure test. Before travelling, check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Your International Travel Vaccination Certificate will have a QR code that will be scanned when you are travelling. It will include details of the COVID-19 vaccinations you have had administered in New Zealand. You can save this certificate on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. This certificate is valid for 12 months. --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass, My Vaccine Record or International Travel Vaccination Certificate : online through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 222 478 in person at a participating vaccination site. 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the ‘Passes and certificates’ section, select ‘Request pass or certificate’. 3. The ‘Select who this pass or certificate is for’ will open. Select either ‘Myself’ or ‘Someone else’. 4. The ‘Select a pass or certificate’ option will appear. Select ‘My Vaccine Pass' or ‘International Travel Vaccination Certificate.' 5. You will then be prompted to enter details including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your My Vaccine Pass by email within 24 hours. 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. Select 'Get a copy of your vaccinations'. 3. You will then be prompted to enter your email address. Your Vaccine Record will be emailed to you within 24 hours. How to use My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- Proof of your vaccination status How to use My Covid Record
Home International travel Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. What you need to know Travel to New Zealand Complete your traveller declaration Travel with Australia International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s borders are reopening in stages. Find the latest information about travelling between Australia and New Zealand. Information on travelling between New Zealand and some Pacific Islands. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s borders are reopening in stages. Find the latest information about travelling between Australia and New Zealand. Information on travelling between New Zealand and some Pacific Islands. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home International travel Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate on arrival, show proof of vaccination or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. Destination-specific travel advisory levels have been reinstated for New Zealanders travelling overseas. Check the SafeTravel website for travel advisories for your destination. Travel advice | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) The New Zealand Government urges any New Zealanders who are overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) You may need proof of vaccination to travel overseas. Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with the Cook Islands and some other Pacific Islands. Travel with the Cook Islands Travel with some Pacific Islands Some countries require travellers to have a negative COVID-19 test result before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Pre-departure testing for international travel is not covered under the public health response, therefore it is not available for free from community testing centres, pharmacies or GPs. Some pharmacies and GPs may offer supervised tests for retail sale for international travel using their own privately procured supply of rapid antigen tests (RATs). There are also some private clinics where travellers can pay for a pre-departure RAT or PCR test. You can check which providers do pre-departure tests on the Healthpoint website. COVID-19 testing | Healthpoint (external link) Whatever type of test you take: it needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your destination country you may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time assuming the test is negative, you will be given an electronic or paper copy of the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. remember to take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate on arrival, show proof of vaccination or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. --- Section Separator --- Destination-specific travel advisory levels have been reinstated for New Zealanders travelling overseas. Check the SafeTravel website for travel advisories for your destination. Travel advice | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) The New Zealand Government urges any New Zealanders who are overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may need proof of vaccination to travel overseas. Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with the Cook Islands and some other Pacific Islands. Travel with the Cook Islands Travel with some Pacific Islands --- Section Separator --- Some countries require travellers to have a negative COVID-19 test result before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Pre-departure testing for international travel is not covered under the public health response, therefore it is not available for free from community testing centres, pharmacies or GPs. Some pharmacies and GPs may offer supervised tests for retail sale for international travel using their own privately procured supply of rapid antigen tests (RATs). There are also some private clinics where travellers can pay for a pre-departure RAT or PCR test. You can check which providers do pre-departure tests on the Healthpoint website. COVID-19 testing | Healthpoint (external link) Whatever type of test you take: it needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your destination country you may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time assuming the test is negative, you will be given an electronic or paper copy of the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. remember to take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World
Home International travel Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders and develop new ways for people to travel to and from Aotearoa New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Our border reopened to vaccinated New Zealanders from Australia at 11.59pm 27 February 2022. We reopened to New Zealanders in the rest of the world on 4 March 2022. We have removed MIQ for most travellers, replaced by self-testing after they arrive. MIQ is now only used in limited circumstances — for example, maritime and international air crew. Five-step plan prioritises returning New Zealanders and brings forward the reopening of key visa categories to address worker shortages. Further visa categories reopen throughout the year to help accelerate economic recovery. When New Zealand borders open --- Section Separator --- Maintaining our minimisation and protection strategy to stamp out the virus and keep our options open. Ensuring every eligible New Zealander is offered the opportunity to be vaccinated as soon as possible. Reducing the need for further lockdowns as much as possible by continuing to strengthen our health and contact tracing systems. Maintaining strong public health tools. Developing new ways to enable people to travel safely to and from New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Vaccination status and verification will be an important part of supporting New Zealanders to travel internationally. Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can now request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Requesting your certificate takes just 1 to 2 minutes and will be emailed to you within 24 hours.  The quickest way to get your pass is through your My Covid Record, but if you cannot access this service you can call 0800 222 478 — have your NHI number ready. How to use My Covid Record How to use My Covid Record to get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 260 KB] Sign in to My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- Everyone travelling to New Zealand by air must complete a New Zealand Traveller Declaration (NZTD) prior to check-in at the airport. The information collected, which includes COVID-19 vaccination status and test results, is used to let travellers know what they need to do when they arrive in New Zealand: such as self-test on arrival or enter quarantine-free. Travellers need to complete an NZTD and be issued with a Traveller Pass to board their flight to New Zealand, and must show their pass on arrival in New Zealand. The complexity of digital and operational systems that the NZTD needs mean that it is being developed in stages. The first version came into effect in March 2022. The New Zealand Customs Service is administering this project. --- Section Separator --- The forum started with a presentation from Sir David Skegg, with an overview of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group’s advice on reconnecting New Zealand. It was followed by a discussion MC’d by the Prime Minister’s Chief Science Advisor, Dame Juliet Gerrard. The experts bring a range of backgrounds and perspectives to a discussion about vaccination, safe borders, safe travel and public health habits. The event also featured a speech from Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and opening remarks from Dr Ayesha Verrall, Associate Minister of Health. Panel experts included Sir David Skegg, Sir Brian Roche, Dr Maia Brewerton, Dr Api Talemaitoga, Mr Rob Fyfe, Professor Michael Baker, and Dr Ashley Bloomfield. The event was held on Thursday 12 August 2021.
Home International travel Transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Some people do not need an NZeTA or transit visa. Immigration NZ explains who needs an NZeTA or transit visa, and who can transit New Zealand without one. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You can transit New Zealand to or from Australia. Flight availability may be limited — check with your airline if flights are available. You must meet all requirements for transiting New Zealand. Check what you need to do | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must also meet all requirements for your final destination. These may include valid visas to enter the country, negative pre-departure test results and proof of vaccination. Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. What you need to do depends on if you’re entering New Zealand: for 24 to 72 hours, or for longer than 72 hours, but less than 14 days. What to do if you are staying in NZ longer than 24 hours | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you are transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you are travelling though and your final destination. You will not be able to transit New Zealand if you do not meet all requirements. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you need to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 before flying to New Zealand. If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, then you must be fully vaccinated. This applies even though you are staying "airside" and you do not go through Customs. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Some people do not need an NZeTA or transit visa. Immigration NZ explains who needs an NZeTA or transit visa, and who can transit New Zealand without one. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can transit New Zealand to or from Australia. Flight availability may be limited — check with your airline if flights are available. You must meet all requirements for transiting New Zealand. Check what you need to do | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must also meet all requirements for your final destination. These may include valid visas to enter the country, negative pre-departure test results and proof of vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. What you need to do depends on if you’re entering New Zealand: for 24 to 72 hours, or for longer than 72 hours, but less than 14 days. What to do if you are staying in NZ longer than 24 hours | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you are transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you are travelling though and your final destination. You will not be able to transit New Zealand if you do not meet all requirements. --- Section Separator --- If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you need to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 before flying to New Zealand. If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, then you must be fully vaccinated. This applies even though you are staying "airside" and you do not go through Customs. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand New Zealand’s borders are reopening in stages. What you need to know Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Transiting New Zealand Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- From 11:59pm 18 March 2022, most travellers entering New Zealand will be able to self-test on arrival and will no longer need to enter Managed Isolation and Quarantine (MIQ). MIQ will only be used in limited circumstances — for example, for some maritime and international air crew. These travellers are now no longer required to enter MIQ when they arrive in New Zealand: unvaccinated New Zealand citizens non-New Zealand citizens who meet the vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand, unless they are exempt. Find out more about entering New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival More information about MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Over 2022, New Zealand's borders are reopening to allow more travellers to enter New Zealand. Everyone travelling to New Zealand must be eligible to enter. Check your eligibility at Immigration NZ. Most non-New Zealand citizens must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- All travellers must complete the traveller declaration before travelling to New Zealand, unless you are entering managed isolation and quarantine. Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 test result to enter New Zealand. Find out about our pre-departure requirements. Eligible travellers must do 2 rapid antigen tests after arriving in New Zealand. Find out about testing when you arrive. --- Section Separator --- Travellers who are vaccinated with approved vaccines for New Zealand must take 2 rapid antigen tests after they arrive. Travellers from some Pacific Islands can enter New Zealand quarantine-free. This means they do not need to self-test on arrival. From 19 March 2022, most travellers entering New Zealand can self-test on arrival, and will no longer need to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). MIQ will only be used in limited circumstances. Find out more information about MIQ. --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link)
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand How to enter New Zealand If you are not travelling quarantine–free, you must take 2 rapid antigen tests on arrival. --- Section Separator --- Travellers who are vaccinated with approved vaccines for New Zealand must take 2 rapid antigen tests after they arrive. Travellers from some Pacific Islands can enter New Zealand quarantine-free. This means they do not need to self-test on arrival. From 19 March 2022, most travellers entering New Zealand can self-test on arrival, and will no longer need to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ). MIQ will only be used in limited circumstances. Find out more information about MIQ.
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand How to enter New Zealand How to travel to New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival --- Section Separator --- The Government no longer requires My Vaccine Pass to be used to access businesses, events and services. Businesses can still choose to require My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry if there are health and safety reasons for doing so. Some workers are still required to be vaccinated. Vaccinations and work New Zealand borders are reopening throughout 2022. Find out when New Zealand borders open New Zealand citizens and other vaccinated eligible travellers can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Check that your passport has not expired. It can take 10 working days or more to renew a passport. Get or renew a New Zealand passport | govt.nz (external link) Book an available flight to New Zealand. If you are a New Zealand citizen, it is a good idea to register with SafeTravel at the same time. SafeTravel can check on your wellbeing if needed, or send you important information while you are overseas. Register with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealand citizens can self-test on arrival whether or not they are vaccinated. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must be vaccinated with approved vaccines. Unvaccinated children aged 16 years and under can self-test on arrival if they are travelling alone, or with parents or guardians who meet the requirements for self-testing. Some people are exempt from the vaccination requirements. Check the vaccination requirements All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. Start your declaration as soon as you can, to ensure you have time to complete it before you travel. You need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. If you were issued a Travel Pass through Nau Mai Rā, it will remain valid for entry into New Zealand. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. You can choose one of the following: a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test administered no more than 48 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand, or supervised rapid antigen test (RAT) administered no more than 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand, or a supervised loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) test administered no more than 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand. Some people do not need to get a pre-departure test. Make sure your pre-departure test documentation meets New Zealand’s standards. Find out more about pre-departure testing requirements You need to have some evidence at the airport. Your documents can be paper or electronic. If they apply to you, you will need your: passport, and your visa ticket for your flight completed traveller declaration evidence of your vaccination status negative pre-departure test result. You will be asked if you have COVID-19 symptoms by airline staff. Customs will verify your travel history, negative pre-departure test result, vaccination status, traveller declaration and any other entry requirements. Expect some delays as you transit through the airport. Please be kind to airport staff as they are working as quickly and carefully as they can. You will be given your welcome pack at Biosecurity once you have gone through Customs. Your welcome pack has: rapid antigen test (RAT) kits a guide to testing. Take your RAT test as instructed on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand Aotearoa New Zealand is operating in the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic light system. The traffic lights help us manage life with Omicron, while reducing the impact of future outbreaks. Find out what traffic light your area is at Life at Red, Orange and Green My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. Some businesses may ask you to show a My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry. Businesses cannot ask you for a My Vaccine Pass to access services such as supermarkets, pharmacies, healthcare and public transport. If you were vaccinated overseas, you can get a My Vaccine Pass by following the steps outlined by the Ministry of Health. Overseas vaccinations and My Vaccine Pass | health.govt.nz (external link) It may take up to 14 days to get your My Vaccine Pass, so we recommend you apply before you travel. It is important to keep track of high-risk locations you have been at and who you have been with, so you know who to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. The NZ COVID Tracer app can help you keep track of where you have been. If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. How to keep track of where you have been You should keep your Bluetooth tracing turned on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Government no longer requires My Vaccine Pass to be used to access businesses, events and services. Businesses can still choose to require My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry if there are health and safety reasons for doing so. Some workers are still required to be vaccinated. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- New Zealand borders are reopening throughout 2022. Find out when New Zealand borders open --- Section Separator --- New Zealand citizens and other vaccinated eligible travellers can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Check that your passport has not expired. It can take 10 working days or more to renew a passport. Get or renew a New Zealand passport | govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Book an available flight to New Zealand. If you are a New Zealand citizen, it is a good idea to register with SafeTravel at the same time. SafeTravel can check on your wellbeing if needed, or send you important information while you are overseas. Register with SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand citizens can self-test on arrival whether or not they are vaccinated. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must be vaccinated with approved vaccines. Unvaccinated children aged 16 years and under can self-test on arrival if they are travelling alone, or with parents or guardians who meet the requirements for self-testing. Some people are exempt from the vaccination requirements. Check the vaccination requirements --- Section Separator --- All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. Start your declaration as soon as you can, to ensure you have time to complete it before you travel. You need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. If you were issued a Travel Pass through Nau Mai Rā, it will remain valid for entry into New Zealand. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. You can choose one of the following: a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test administered no more than 48 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand, or supervised rapid antigen test (RAT) administered no more than 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand, or a supervised loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) test administered no more than 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand. Some people do not need to get a pre-departure test. Make sure your pre-departure test documentation meets New Zealand’s standards. Find out more about pre-departure testing requirements --- Section Separator --- You need to have some evidence at the airport. Your documents can be paper or electronic. If they apply to you, you will need your: passport, and your visa ticket for your flight completed traveller declaration evidence of your vaccination status negative pre-departure test result. You will be asked if you have COVID-19 symptoms by airline staff. --- Section Separator --- Customs will verify your travel history, negative pre-departure test result, vaccination status, traveller declaration and any other entry requirements. Expect some delays as you transit through the airport. Please be kind to airport staff as they are working as quickly and carefully as they can. You will be given your welcome pack at Biosecurity once you have gone through Customs. Your welcome pack has: rapid antigen test (RAT) kits a guide to testing. Take your RAT test as instructed on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Aotearoa New Zealand is operating in the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic light system. The traffic lights help us manage life with Omicron, while reducing the impact of future outbreaks. Find out what traffic light your area is at Life at Red, Orange and Green My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. Some businesses may ask you to show a My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry. Businesses cannot ask you for a My Vaccine Pass to access services such as supermarkets, pharmacies, healthcare and public transport. If you were vaccinated overseas, you can get a My Vaccine Pass by following the steps outlined by the Ministry of Health. Overseas vaccinations and My Vaccine Pass | health.govt.nz (external link) It may take up to 14 days to get your My Vaccine Pass, so we recommend you apply before you travel. --- Section Separator --- It is important to keep track of high-risk locations you have been at and who you have been with, so you know who to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. The NZ COVID Tracer app can help you keep track of where you have been. If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. How to keep track of where you have been You should keep your Bluetooth tracing turned on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to enter New Zealand How to travel to New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival How to travel to New Zealand if you are travelling quarantine-free How to travel to New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival How to travel to New Zealand if you are travelling quarantine-free When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand How to enter New Zealand How to travel to New Zealand if you are travelling quarantine-free --- Section Separator --- Due to COVID-19 community transmission, there are now additional testing requirements if you are travelling to New Zealand from Samoa, Vanuatu, American Samoa or the Cook Islands. Quarantine-free travel means you do not have to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) when you arrive. You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand if you meet immigration requirements, and are travelling from: Nauru Niue Tokelau Tuvalu. You must take a rapid-antigen test (RAT) on arrival and Day 5/6 after you arrive in New Zealand. The tests will be provided in a Welcome Pack, with instructions, at the Biosecurity checkpoint during processing when you arrive in New Zealand. You will receive an email with details on how to report your RATs results into the New Zealand health system. Travellers from American Samoa, Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, Niue, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga , Tuvalu and Vanuatu do not need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. Travellers arriving from Nauru, Niue, Tokelau and Tuvalu do not need to self test on arrival. New Zealand citizens and permanent residents can travel to New Zealand. If you are not a citizen or permanent resident, check if you can travel. You may need to apply for a visa. If you are not sure you can enter New Zealand, find out at Immigration NZ: You are in a quarantine-free travel country | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Check that your passport has not expired. It can take 10 working days or more to renew a passport. Get or renew a New Zealand passport | govt.nz (external link) Book an available flight to New Zealand. If you are a New Zealand citizen, it is a good idea to register with SafeTravel at the same time. SafeTravel can check on your wellbeing if needed, or send you important information while you are overseas. Register with SafeTravel (external link) (external link) If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must provide proof of an approved vaccination to enter New Zealand quarantine-free. If you are a New Zealand citizen, you do not need to be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. However, some airlines will require it. Check with your airline. Make sure you have evidence, if you need it. Vaccination requirements for travelling quarantine-free All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. Start your declaration as soon as you can, to ensure you have time to complete it before you travel. You need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. If you were issued a Travel Pass through Nau Mai Rā, it will remain valid for entry into New Zealand. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) You need to have some evidence at the airport. Your documents can be paper or electronic. If they apply to you, you will need your: passport, and your visa ticket for your flight completed traveller declaration proof of your vaccination status. You will be asked if you have COVID-19 symptoms by airline staff. Customs will verify your travel history, vaccination status, traveller declaration and any other entry requirements. Once you have gone through Customs, passport control and the health check, you can collect your bags and safely enter the community. My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. Some businesses may ask you to show a My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry. Businesses cannot ask you for a My Vaccine Pass to access services such as supermarkets, pharmacies, healthcare and public transport. If you were vaccinated overseas, you can get a My Vaccine Pass by following the steps outlined by the Ministry of Health. Overseas vaccinations and My Vaccine Pass | Ministry of Health NZ (external link) It may take up to 14 days to get your My Vaccine Pass, so we recommend you apply before you travel. It is important to keep track of high-risk locations you have been at and who you have been with, so you know who to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. The NZ COVID Tracer app can help you keep track of where you have been. If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. How to keep track of where you have been You should keep your Bluetooth tracing turned on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) Aotearoa New Zealand is operating in the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic light system. The traffic lights help is manage life with Omicron, while reducing the impact of future outbreaks. Find out what traffic light your area is at Life at Red, Orange and Green --- Section Separator --- Due to COVID-19 community transmission, there are now additional testing requirements if you are travelling to New Zealand from Samoa, Vanuatu, American Samoa or the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel means you do not have to enter managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) when you arrive. You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand if you meet immigration requirements, and are travelling from: Nauru Niue Tokelau Tuvalu. You must take a rapid-antigen test (RAT) on arrival and Day 5/6 after you arrive in New Zealand. The tests will be provided in a Welcome Pack, with instructions, at the Biosecurity checkpoint during processing when you arrive in New Zealand. You will receive an email with details on how to report your RATs results into the New Zealand health system. Travellers from American Samoa, Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, Niue, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga , Tuvalu and Vanuatu do not need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. Travellers arriving from Nauru, Niue, Tokelau and Tuvalu do not need to self test on arrival. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand citizens and permanent residents can travel to New Zealand. If you are not a citizen or permanent resident, check if you can travel. You may need to apply for a visa. If you are not sure you can enter New Zealand, find out at Immigration NZ: You are in a quarantine-free travel country | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Check that your passport has not expired. It can take 10 working days or more to renew a passport. Get or renew a New Zealand passport | govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Book an available flight to New Zealand. If you are a New Zealand citizen, it is a good idea to register with SafeTravel at the same time. SafeTravel can check on your wellbeing if needed, or send you important information while you are overseas. Register with SafeTravel (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must provide proof of an approved vaccination to enter New Zealand quarantine-free. If you are a New Zealand citizen, you do not need to be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. However, some airlines will require it. Check with your airline. Make sure you have evidence, if you need it. Vaccination requirements for travelling quarantine-free --- Section Separator --- All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. Start your declaration as soon as you can, to ensure you have time to complete it before you travel. You need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. If you were issued a Travel Pass through Nau Mai Rā, it will remain valid for entry into New Zealand. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- You need to have some evidence at the airport. Your documents can be paper or electronic. If they apply to you, you will need your: passport, and your visa ticket for your flight completed traveller declaration proof of your vaccination status. You will be asked if you have COVID-19 symptoms by airline staff. --- Section Separator --- Customs will verify your travel history, vaccination status, traveller declaration and any other entry requirements. Once you have gone through Customs, passport control and the health check, you can collect your bags and safely enter the community. --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. Some businesses may ask you to show a My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry. Businesses cannot ask you for a My Vaccine Pass to access services such as supermarkets, pharmacies, healthcare and public transport. If you were vaccinated overseas, you can get a My Vaccine Pass by following the steps outlined by the Ministry of Health. Overseas vaccinations and My Vaccine Pass | Ministry of Health NZ (external link) It may take up to 14 days to get your My Vaccine Pass, so we recommend you apply before you travel. It is important to keep track of high-risk locations you have been at and who you have been with, so you know who to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. The NZ COVID Tracer app can help you keep track of where you have been. If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. How to keep track of where you have been You should keep your Bluetooth tracing turned on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) Aotearoa New Zealand is operating in the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic light system. The traffic lights help is manage life with Omicron, while reducing the impact of future outbreaks. Find out what traffic light your area is at Life at Red, Orange and Green --- Section Separator --- How to enter New Zealand How to travel to New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival How to travel to New Zealand if you are travelling quarantine-free How to travel to New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival How to travel to New Zealand if you are travelling quarantine-free When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. --- Section Separator --- Most travellers entering New Zealand from 28 February 2022 must provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 result from one of these tests: a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test administered no more than 48 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand, or supervised rapid antigen test (RAT) administered no more than 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand, or a supervised loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) test administered no more than 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand. You still need a test even if you have been vaccinated for COVID-19, and if you are entering managed isolation (MIQ). You are responsible for checking your chosen testing provider can provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. Tests from free community testing stations may not be acceptable for travel clearance, so check before your test. Medical certificates If you are required to provide a medical certificate because you cannot take a test due to medical reasons, you will also need to get this 48 hours before your flight. You will need to present this as part of your check-in documentation. --- Section Separator --- You must make sure that the testing provider you choose can provide your test results with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. Free community testing stations often do not provide all the information required for travel clearance, so check before having your pre-departure test. If your pre-departure documentation does not contain the required information, or is not in the required format, you may be prevented from boarding your plane or be asked to get a further test before you are allowed to board your flight. The New Zealand Government requires that all pre-departure tests confirm a negative result and contain written confirmation of the following information for travel clearance: Information about the traveller traveller’s full name traveller’s date of birth or passport number. Information about the COVID-19 test the type of test (PCR, RAT or LAMP) date and time the test was conducted (please note that PCR tests must be taken no more than 48 hours prior to departure, RAT or LAMP tests must be taken no more than 24 hours prior to departure) the test result - confirming that it was negative. Information about the testing lab or supervising health professional If you had a PCR test: the name of the testing lab If you had a RAT or LAMP: either the name of the health professional that supervised the test, including either a letterhead or stamp confirming the supervisor’s name, occupation and employer or the name of the pharmacy, laboratory, healthcare entity, telehealth service, community-based or airport-based testing station that supervised the test. Evidence may be in paper or digital form. Evidence must be in English or accompanied by a certified translation into English. --- Section Separator --- Some travellers are exempt from pre-departure testing requirements. --- Section Separator --- You can get tested at a range of places. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. Make sure you check your chosen testing provider will provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. You are responsible for meeting any costs associated with your test. All tests (including at-home tests) must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests.
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Vaccinated and eligible travellers entering New Zealand will be given a pack of rapid antigen tests (RATs), with instructions, at the airport. You must take 2 tests. Take a test on: Day 0/1, when you arrive in New Zealand, and Day 5/6. Check the vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand. Vaccination requirements to travel to New Zealand You must report both RAT results, whether you test negative or positive. You will receive an email from the New Zealand Ministry of Health after you complete your traveller declaration. Follow the instructions in the email and report your results using the link in the email. You can also call the COVID-19 Test Results Line and leave a message with your result. Call: 0800 432 010 If you return a positive RAT result you will need to: report it, including that you have recently arrived in New Zealand isolate for 7 days, the same period as a community case in New Zealand, and get a PCR test. Tell the health professional who does the test that you have recently arrived in New Zealand. The PCR test sample provides valuable information about potential new variants coming into New Zealand. Visit a community testing centre if you need a PCR test. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) If you return a negative RAT, you must still report your result. You do not need to self-isolate. If a result is failed or indeterminate, you must take another RAT. Follow the manufacturer's instructions on how long to wait between tests. --- Section Separator --- Vaccinated and eligible travellers entering New Zealand will be given a pack of rapid antigen tests (RATs), with instructions, at the airport. You must take 2 tests. Take a test on: Day 0/1, when you arrive in New Zealand, and Day 5/6. Check the vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand. Vaccination requirements to travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You must report both RAT results, whether you test negative or positive. You will receive an email from the New Zealand Ministry of Health after you complete your traveller declaration. Follow the instructions in the email and report your results using the link in the email. You can also call the COVID-19 Test Results Line and leave a message with your result. Call: 0800 432 010 --- Section Separator --- If you return a positive RAT result you will need to: report it, including that you have recently arrived in New Zealand isolate for 7 days, the same period as a community case in New Zealand, and get a PCR test. Tell the health professional who does the test that you have recently arrived in New Zealand. The PCR test sample provides valuable information about potential new variants coming into New Zealand. Visit a community testing centre if you need a PCR test. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you return a negative RAT, you must still report your result. You do not need to self-isolate. --- Section Separator --- If a result is failed or indeterminate, you must take another RAT. Follow the manufacturer's instructions on how long to wait between tests. --- Section Separator --- How to enter New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The following people need to provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand: non-New Zealand citizens — including New Zealand permanent residents non-New Zealand citizens who are transiting New Zealand foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand. You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen are a child aged 16 years and under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a health practitioner are a refugee arriving in New Zealand for the first time are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated are arriving from Antarctica have been granted a visa under the 2022 Special Ukraine Visa Policy; or if you are or were ordinarily resident in Ukraine at any point on or after 1 January 2022. You do not need to apply for an exemption if you are listed above. Travellers still need to meet all other entry requirements to enter New Zealand, including any pre-departure testing and testing on arrival requirements. How to enter New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival Some travellers may be able to get an exemption if they are travelling to New Zealand from a country with no, or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you might qualify for an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health: Apply for an exemption | health.govt.nz (external link) Any vaccine that has been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority is approved for entry into New Zealand. There are 35 vaccines that are approved. To be eligible to enter New Zealand, you must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. You need a digital vaccine certificate or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: your name the name of the vaccine or vaccines you received the name of the agency that administered them the name of the place where you received them the date of each dose or the date when a primary vaccination course was completed. If you are a New Zealand citizen and you are not vaccinated, you will be able to enter New Zealand. Find out how to enter New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival If you are a n on-New Zealand ci tizen who do es not meet the vaccination requirements , you wi l l not be able to enter New Zealand , unless you have an exemption. --- Section Separator --- The following people need to provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand: non-New Zealand citizens — including New Zealand permanent residents non-New Zealand citizens who are transiting New Zealand foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen are a child aged 16 years and under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a health practitioner are a refugee arriving in New Zealand for the first time are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated are arriving from Antarctica have been granted a visa under the 2022 Special Ukraine Visa Policy; or if you are or were ordinarily resident in Ukraine at any point on or after 1 January 2022. You do not need to apply for an exemption if you are listed above. Travellers still need to meet all other entry requirements to enter New Zealand, including any pre-departure testing and testing on arrival requirements. How to enter New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival Some travellers may be able to get an exemption if they are travelling to New Zealand from a country with no, or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you might qualify for an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health: Apply for an exemption | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Any vaccine that has been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority is approved for entry into New Zealand. There are 35 vaccines that are approved. To be eligible to enter New Zealand, you must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. --- Section Separator --- You need a digital vaccine certificate or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: your name the name of the vaccine or vaccines you received the name of the agency that administered them the name of the place where you received them the date of each dose or the date when a primary vaccination course was completed. --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen and you are not vaccinated, you will be able to enter New Zealand. Find out how to enter New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival If you are a n on-New Zealand ci tizen who do es not meet the vaccination requirements , you wi l l not be able to enter New Zealand , unless you have an exemption. --- Section Separator --- How to enter New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open --- Section Separator --- From 11:59pm 12 April 2022, vaccinated Australian citizens and permanent residents can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. From 11:59pm 1 May 2022, vaccinated visitors from visa waiver countries, and visitors from other countries who already hold a valid visitor visa can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. The following people can enter New Zealand now from anywhere in the world and self-test on arrival. Vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand citizens Vaccinated New Zealand residents Vaccinated travellers with a border exception Vaccinated travellers on a working holiday scheme Other vaccinated eligible travellers under current border settings Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand under current border settings | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Find out more about what you need to do before and after you enter New Zealand: How to enter New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival The following vaccinated people can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival: Australian citizens and permanent residents Current temporary work and student visa holders from anywhere in the world , with a valid visa who can still meet their visa requirements — this includes both visa holders currently offshore, and those in New Zealand who choose to travel overseas and wish to return Up to 5,000 international students from anywhere in the world , for semester 2 Find out more about what you need to do before and after entering New Zealand: How to enter New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival The following vaccinated people can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival: Visitors from countries who do not need a visa (visa waiver visitors) Visitors from other countries who already hold a valid visitor visa Visa waiver countries and territories | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Find out more about what you need to do before and after entering New Zealand: How to enter New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival The following vaccinated people can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival: Travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa categories Accredited Employer Work Visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) All visa categories will reopen from October 2022 onwards, including visitor and student visas. Most n on-New Zealand citizens who do not meet the vaccination requirements are not able to enter New Zealand — unless they are ex empt or do not need to have proof of vaccination. You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen are aged 16 years or under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a health practitioner are a refugee arriving in New Zealand for the first time are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated are arriving from Antarctica. Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand Some travellers may be able to get an exemption if they are travelling to New Zealand from a country with no, or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you might qualify for an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health. Apply for an exemption | health.govt.nz (external link) To enter New Zealand, you must meet some health requirements, including: You must provide a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test: Get a pre-departure test If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must meet vaccination requirements: Check vaccination requirements After you enter New Zealand you must do 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6 and declare your results. All positive RATs must be registered and followed up with a PCR test. Testing requirements after arriving Travellers from some Pacific island countries are not required to get a pre-departure test or test on arrival: Travel with the Pacific Islands --- Section Separator --- From 11:59pm 12 April 2022, vaccinated Australian citizens and permanent residents can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. From 11:59pm 1 May 2022, vaccinated visitors from visa waiver countries, and visitors from other countries who already hold a valid visitor visa can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. --- Section Separator --- The following people can enter New Zealand now from anywhere in the world and self-test on arrival. Vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand citizens Vaccinated New Zealand residents Vaccinated travellers with a border exception Vaccinated travellers on a working holiday scheme Other vaccinated eligible travellers under current border settings Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand under current border settings | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Find out more about what you need to do before and after you enter New Zealand: How to enter New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival --- Section Separator --- The following vaccinated people can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival: Australian citizens and permanent residents Current temporary work and student visa holders from anywhere in the world , with a valid visa who can still meet their visa requirements — this includes both visa holders currently offshore, and those in New Zealand who choose to travel overseas and wish to return Up to 5,000 international students from anywhere in the world , for semester 2 Find out more about what you need to do before and after entering New Zealand: How to enter New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival The following vaccinated people can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival: Visitors from countries who do not need a visa (visa waiver visitors) Visitors from other countries who already hold a valid visitor visa Visa waiver countries and territories | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Find out more about what you need to do before and after entering New Zealand: How to enter New Zealand if you are self-testing on arrival The following vaccinated people can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival: Travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa categories Accredited Employer Work Visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) All visa categories will reopen from October 2022 onwards, including visitor and student visas. --- Section Separator --- Most n on-New Zealand citizens who do not meet the vaccination requirements are not able to enter New Zealand — unless they are ex empt or do not need to have proof of vaccination. You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen are aged 16 years or under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a health practitioner are a refugee arriving in New Zealand for the first time are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated are arriving from Antarctica. Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand Some travellers may be able to get an exemption if they are travelling to New Zealand from a country with no, or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you might qualify for an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health. Apply for an exemption | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- To enter New Zealand, you must meet some health requirements, including: You must provide a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test: Get a pre-departure test If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must meet vaccination requirements: Check vaccination requirements After you enter New Zealand you must do 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6 and declare your results. All positive RATs must be registered and followed up with a PCR test. Testing requirements after arriving Travellers from some Pacific island countries are not required to get a pre-departure test or test on arrival: Travel with the Pacific Islands --- Section Separator --- How to enter New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel with Australia Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- F rom 11:59pm 12 April 2022 v accinated Australian citizens and permanent residents can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival . When New Zealand's borders open --- Section Separator --- If you want to travel from Australia, you must be eligible to enter New Zealand. Check now to see if you can travel. Who can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. This includes people who begin their journey in New Zealand to travel to Australia, and then return to New Zealand — no matter how long you are in Australia for. You need a test even if you have been vaccinated for COVID-19. Plan when to get your test and results as they must be: no more than 48 hours before you depart if you have a PCR test no more than 24 hours before you depart if you have a supervised RAT or supervised LAMP test. If you are making a short visit to Australia, this may mean you have to get a test soon after you arrive in Australia. If your pre-departure test documentation does not contain the required information, or is not in the required format, you may be prevented from boarding your flight to New Zealand. Check pre-departure testing requirements to enter New Zealand --- Section Separator --- All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. Start your declaration as soon as you can, to ensure you have time to complete it before you travel. You need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. If you were issued a Travel Pass through Nau Mai Rā, it will remain valid for entry into New Zealand. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand citizens and eligible non-New Zealand citizens who meet the vaccination requirements must take 2 rapid antigen tests after they arrive in New Zealand. How to travel to New Zealand when you are self-testing after arrival If you are not a New Zealand citizen and you do not meet the vaccination requirements, you will not be able to enter New Zealand. Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand --- Section Separator --- All visa holders who are fully vaccinated for international travel purposes can travel to Australia without a travel exemption. Unvaccinated visa holders will still need to be in an exempt category or hold an individual travel exemption to enter Australia. Travelling to Australia | australia.gov.au (external link)
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Information on travelling between New Zealand and some Pacific Islands. --- Section Separator --- Information about travelling between the Cook Islands and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You can travel to New Zealand from some Pacific Islands without providing a negative pre-departure test, and there is no longer a requirement to go into a managed isolation facility (MIQ) on arrival. You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility or self-test on arrival. --- Section Separator --- Information about travelling between the Cook Islands and New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. You can travel to New Zealand from some Pacific Islands without providing a negative pre-departure test, and there is no longer a requirement to go into a managed isolation facility (MIQ) on arrival. You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility or self-test on arrival.
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. If you want to travel to Aitutaki or another island after you arrive in Rarotonga, check what you need to do: Frequently asked questions about travel to the Cook Islands (external link) Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. If you want to travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight as a visitor, you must meet the following criteria: Most travellers must be fully vaccinated. You can travel 14 days after you have completed your primary course — for most people, this is 2 doses. You do not need to have had a booster dose. You must have evidence you are vaccinated. Make sure you get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate from My Covid Record — you cannot use your My Vaccine Pass for international travel: International Travel Vaccination Certificate Children aged under 5 years and 3 months do not need to be vaccinated. If you cannot get vaccinated for medical reasons, apply for an exemption by emailing tmo.exemptions@cookislands.gov.ck You must have evidence of a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test. You must have had your test done and received your results before your departure: no more than 48 hours for a RT-PCR test, or no more than 24 hours for a rapid antigen test (RAT). Your test must be conducted by a Ministry of Health accredited laboratory (external link) Your evidence can be an electronic or paper copy, but a text message will not be accepted. Your evidence must have: Information about the traveller traveller’s full name traveller’s date of birth or passport number. Information about the COVID-19 test the type of test (RT-PCR or RAT) date and time the test was conducted (please note that RT-PCR tests must be taken no more than 48 hours prior to departure, RATs must be taken no more than 24 hours prior to departure) the test result - confirming that it was negative. Information about the testing lab or supervising health professional If you had a RT-PCR test: the name of the testing lab If you had a RAT: the name and title of the health professional that supervised the test, and the letterhead of their workplace (for example, a pharmacy or medical centre) or a stamp that confirms their name and title. If you have a positive test result If you have a positive COVID-19 pre-departure test result, as long as it is an historic infection, you may still be able to travel. You must provide a letter from your GP confirming that: you have had COVID-19 within the 3 months before you depart from New Zealand to the Cook Islands the GP considers you are no longer infectious. A GP can be your family doctor either in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. You must complete the Cook Islands travel declaration no more than 96 hours before you depart New Zealand. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the Cook Islands travel declaration (external link) New Zealand passport holders can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for up to 90 days, as long as they have 7 days validity remaining on their passports beyond their intended stay. Australian passport holders can stay for up to 31 days, with 7 days validity remaining. Everyone else can stay for up to 31 days, with 6 months validity remaining on their passports. New Zealand passport holders can travel one-way — everyone else must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. It is your responsibility to make sure that you meet the Cook Islands immigration requirements. Frequently asked questions about entry requirements for the Cook Islands (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) There are some exceptions to these criteria for Cook Islanders, Cook Islands permanent residents, children of Cook Islands permanent residents and holders of valid Cook Islands issued immigration permits (other than visitor permits). From 18 March 2022, unvaccinated Cook Islanders and permanent residents can enter the Cook Islands. Some airlines still have restrictions in place regarding unvaccinated passengers. Check before you book a flight. Travel information for the Cook Islands | cookislands.travel (external link) Wear a face mask on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Health professionals may do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example, hayfever), make sure you bring a medical certificate as evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in the Cook Islands. You should be aware that you may need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Your health may be assessed when you arrive. Keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you are visiting safe from COVID-19. Public health measures | covid19.gov.ck (external link) Wash and sanitise your hands often. Cover your coughs and sneezes. Stay home or in your accommodation if you feel unwell. Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. Download the CookSafe+ app and turn on Bluetooth tracing to keep track of the people you have been near. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in 1 contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you are in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall 1 app to be able to use the other. You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan if your travel is disrupted. You will need to meet any costs, and government assistance is unlikely to be available. Your airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Get travel insurance, and check your policy will cover you for COVID-19-related disruption. You may need to enter managed isolation when you return, and you may need to pay for your stay. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you are a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, check you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands. If border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — you may need to apply for a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register your travel plans at SafeTravel. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can send you important travel information to help keep you safe and provide updates about emergencies. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you are overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. If you are travelling back to New Zealand, you must meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. Start your declaration as soon as you can, to ensure you have time to complete it before you travel. You need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. If you were issued a Travel Pass through Nau Mai Rā, it will remain valid for entry into New Zealand. Complete traveller declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. If you want to travel to Aitutaki or another island after you arrive in Rarotonga, check what you need to do: Frequently asked questions about travel to the Cook Islands (external link) Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. --- Section Separator --- If you want to travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight as a visitor, you must meet the following criteria: Most travellers must be fully vaccinated. You can travel 14 days after you have completed your primary course — for most people, this is 2 doses. You do not need to have had a booster dose. You must have evidence you are vaccinated. Make sure you get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate from My Covid Record — you cannot use your My Vaccine Pass for international travel: International Travel Vaccination Certificate Children aged under 5 years and 3 months do not need to be vaccinated. If you cannot get vaccinated for medical reasons, apply for an exemption by emailing tmo.exemptions@cookislands.gov.ck You must have evidence of a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test. You must have had your test done and received your results before your departure: no more than 48 hours for a RT-PCR test, or no more than 24 hours for a rapid antigen test (RAT). Your test must be conducted by a Ministry of Health accredited laboratory (external link) Your evidence can be an electronic or paper copy, but a text message will not be accepted. Your evidence must have: Information about the traveller traveller’s full name traveller’s date of birth or passport number. Information about the COVID-19 test the type of test (RT-PCR or RAT) date and time the test was conducted (please note that RT-PCR tests must be taken no more than 48 hours prior to departure, RATs must be taken no more than 24 hours prior to departure) the test result - confirming that it was negative. Information about the testing lab or supervising health professional If you had a RT-PCR test: the name of the testing lab If you had a RAT: the name and title of the health professional that supervised the test, and the letterhead of their workplace (for example, a pharmacy or medical centre) or a stamp that confirms their name and title. If you have a positive test result If you have a positive COVID-19 pre-departure test result, as long as it is an historic infection, you may still be able to travel. You must provide a letter from your GP confirming that: you have had COVID-19 within the 3 months before you depart from New Zealand to the Cook Islands the GP considers you are no longer infectious. A GP can be your family doctor either in the Cook Islands or New Zealand. You must complete the Cook Islands travel declaration no more than 96 hours before you depart New Zealand. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the Cook Islands travel declaration (external link) New Zealand passport holders can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for up to 90 days, as long as they have 7 days validity remaining on their passports beyond their intended stay. Australian passport holders can stay for up to 31 days, with 7 days validity remaining. Everyone else can stay for up to 31 days, with 6 months validity remaining on their passports. New Zealand passport holders can travel one-way — everyone else must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. It is your responsibility to make sure that you meet the Cook Islands immigration requirements. Frequently asked questions about entry requirements for the Cook Islands (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are some exceptions to these criteria for Cook Islanders, Cook Islands permanent residents, children of Cook Islands permanent residents and holders of valid Cook Islands issued immigration permits (other than visitor permits). From 18 March 2022, unvaccinated Cook Islanders and permanent residents can enter the Cook Islands. Some airlines still have restrictions in place regarding unvaccinated passengers. Check before you book a flight. Travel information for the Cook Islands | cookislands.travel (external link) --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Health professionals may do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example, hayfever), make sure you bring a medical certificate as evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in the Cook Islands. You should be aware that you may need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Your health may be assessed when you arrive. --- Section Separator --- Keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you are visiting safe from COVID-19. Public health measures | covid19.gov.ck (external link) Wash and sanitise your hands often. Cover your coughs and sneezes. Stay home or in your accommodation if you feel unwell. Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. Download the CookSafe+ app and turn on Bluetooth tracing to keep track of the people you have been near. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in 1 contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you are in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall 1 app to be able to use the other. --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan if your travel is disrupted. You will need to meet any costs, and government assistance is unlikely to be available. Your airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. Get travel insurance, and check your policy will cover you for COVID-19-related disruption. You may need to enter managed isolation when you return, and you may need to pay for your stay. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you are a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, check you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands. If border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — you may need to apply for a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register your travel plans at SafeTravel. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can send you important travel information to help keep you safe and provide updates about emergencies. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you are overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling back to New Zealand, you must meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. Start your declaration as soon as you can, to ensure you have time to complete it before you travel. You need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. If you were issued a Travel Pass through Nau Mai Rā, it will remain valid for entry into New Zealand. Complete traveller declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand Quarantine-free travel from some Pacific Islands Niue
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- There are additional testing requirements if you are travelling to New Zealand from the Cook Islands. Travellers from the Cook Islands must self-test on arrival. Self-testing requirements You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-test on arrival. This is called quarantine-free travel. If you are travelling quarantine-free, you do not need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. Travellers must meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: This means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You must also not be waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. Start your declaration as soon as you can, to ensure you have time to complete it before you travel. You need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. If you were issued a Travel Pass through Nau Mai Rā before 1 April 2022, it will remain valid for entry into New Zealand. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Call Te Marae Ora for advice on 57481, or 57482, or 57486, or 56199. You will need to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate for 14 days before you can return to New Zealand. You must be vaccinated if you are not a New Zealand citizen. Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens, and so do not need to show proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Wear a face mask on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in New Zealand. You should be prepared in case you need to self-isolate when you arrive. Unless exempt, you must wear a face mask at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face mask in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. You will see health professionals stationed around the airport, who will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you are in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you have been. After you arrive in New Zealand, you will be given a pack of RATs with instructions, at the Biosecurity checkpoint during processing when you arrive in New Zealand. You must take 2 tests. Take a test on: Day 0/1, when you arrive in New Zealand, and Day 5/6. Y ou will receive an email with details on how to report your RATs results into the New Zealand health system. It is important to keep track of high-risk locations you have been at and who you have been with, so you know who to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. If you have the NZ COVID Tracer app, you can use the digital diary to keep a record of where you have been, and who you were with. If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. How to keep track of where you have been You should keep your Bluetooth tracing turned on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) You must wear a face mask in many indoor settings in New Zealand. Some people do not need to wear a face mask. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell, call Healthline for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you are using an International SIM, you will need to call +64 9 358 5453 Make sure you know what to do at different traffic light settings: Traffic lights You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. This website (Covid19.govt.nz), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) How to travel back to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- There are additional testing requirements if you are travelling to New Zealand from the Cook Islands. Travellers from the Cook Islands must self-test on arrival. Self-testing requirements --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-test on arrival. This is called quarantine-free travel. If you are travelling quarantine-free, you do not need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. Travellers must meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. --- Section Separator --- To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: This means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You must also not be waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. Start your declaration as soon as you can, to ensure you have time to complete it before you travel. You need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. If you were issued a Travel Pass through Nau Mai Rā before 1 April 2022, it will remain valid for entry into New Zealand. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Call Te Marae Ora for advice on 57481, or 57482, or 57486, or 56199. You will need to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate for 14 days before you can return to New Zealand. You must be vaccinated if you are not a New Zealand citizen. Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens, and so do not need to show proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in New Zealand. You should be prepared in case you need to self-isolate when you arrive. Unless exempt, you must wear a face mask at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face mask in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. You will see health professionals stationed around the airport, who will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you are in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you have been. --- Section Separator --- After you arrive in New Zealand, you will be given a pack of RATs with instructions, at the Biosecurity checkpoint during processing when you arrive in New Zealand. You must take 2 tests. Take a test on: Day 0/1, when you arrive in New Zealand, and Day 5/6. Y ou will receive an email with details on how to report your RATs results into the New Zealand health system. It is important to keep track of high-risk locations you have been at and who you have been with, so you know who to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. If you have the NZ COVID Tracer app, you can use the digital diary to keep a record of where you have been, and who you were with. If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. How to keep track of where you have been You should keep your Bluetooth tracing turned on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) You must wear a face mask in many indoor settings in New Zealand. Some people do not need to wear a face mask. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell, call Healthline for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you are using an International SIM, you will need to call +64 9 358 5453 Make sure you know what to do at different traffic light settings: Traffic lights --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- This website (Covid19.govt.nz), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to travel back to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand New Zealand to the Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand Quarantine-free travel from some Pacific Islands Niue
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Quarantine-free travel from some Pacific Islands --- Section Separator --- Due to COVID-19 community transmission, there are now additional testing requirements if you are travelling to New Zealand from Samoa, Vanuatu, American Samoa or the Cook Islands. You can travel one-way from some Pacific Islands to New Zealand without having to quarantine or self-isolate when you arrive. If you are travelling quarantine-free, you do not need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. You are responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to your country is delayed. You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from: Nauru Niue Tokelau Tuvalu. You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand and self-test on arrival from: American Samoa Cook Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Kiribati Marshall Islands Samoa Solomon Islands Tonga Vanuatu. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand Check official websites for information about Pacific Island government departure requirements. You can travel to New Zealand from one of the 4 Pacific countries eligible for quarantine-free travel if you: are a New Zealand citizen have a New Zealand resident visa hold a critical purpose visa. List of critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Requirements for Australian citizens and permanent residents | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand’s transit requirements remain the same. Transit passengers | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following conditions: You must have been only in other quarantine-free travel Pacific countries or New Zealand in the 14 days before travel. This means you can transit another quarantine-free-travel country and enter New Zealand quarantine-free. If you transit any other non-QFT country and go landside, you will be required to meet the public health requirements for travellers from that country. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must be vaccinated. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. Start your declaration as soon as you can, to ensure you have time to complete it before you travel. You need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. If you were issued a Travel Pass through Nau Mai Rā, it will remain valid for entry into New Zealand. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) If you feel unwell at your departure airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, a health professional will assess you when you arrive. When you arrive in New Zealand, you will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on quarantine-free arrivals. Try to keep a safe distance from people you do not know. You must wear a face mask while in the airport in New Zealand. You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your travel home is delayed. It is important to keep track of high-risk locations you have been at and who you have been with, so you know who to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. If you have the NZ COVID Tracer app, you can use the digital diary to keep a record of where you have been, and who you were with. If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. How to keep track of where you have been You should keep your Bluetooth tracing turned on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) Wear a face mask on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell, call Healthline for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you are using an International SIM, you will need to call +64 9 358 5453 Make sure you know what to do at the different traffic light settings. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at all traffic light settings. Traffic lights If you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. --- Section Separator --- Due to COVID-19 community transmission, there are now additional testing requirements if you are travelling to New Zealand from Samoa, Vanuatu, American Samoa or the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- You can travel one-way from some Pacific Islands to New Zealand without having to quarantine or self-isolate when you arrive. If you are travelling quarantine-free, you do not need a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. You are responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to your country is delayed. --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from: Nauru Niue Tokelau Tuvalu. You can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand and self-test on arrival from: American Samoa Cook Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Kiribati Marshall Islands Samoa Solomon Islands Tonga Vanuatu. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand Check official websites for information about Pacific Island government departure requirements. --- Section Separator --- You can travel to New Zealand from one of the 4 Pacific countries eligible for quarantine-free travel if you: are a New Zealand citizen have a New Zealand resident visa hold a critical purpose visa. List of critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Requirements for Australian citizens and permanent residents | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand’s transit requirements remain the same. Transit passengers | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following conditions: You must have been only in other quarantine-free travel Pacific countries or New Zealand in the 14 days before travel. This means you can transit another quarantine-free-travel country and enter New Zealand quarantine-free. If you transit any other non-QFT country and go landside, you will be required to meet the public health requirements for travellers from that country. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must be vaccinated. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. Start your declaration as soon as you can, to ensure you have time to complete it before you travel. You need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. If you were issued a Travel Pass through Nau Mai Rā, it will remain valid for entry into New Zealand. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell at your departure airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, a health professional will assess you when you arrive. When you arrive in New Zealand, you will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on quarantine-free arrivals. Try to keep a safe distance from people you do not know. You must wear a face mask while in the airport in New Zealand. You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your travel home is delayed. --- Section Separator --- It is important to keep track of high-risk locations you have been at and who you have been with, so you know who to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. If you have the NZ COVID Tracer app, you can use the digital diary to keep a record of where you have been, and who you were with. If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. How to keep track of where you have been You should keep your Bluetooth tracing turned on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) Wear a face mask on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell, call Healthline for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you are using an International SIM, you will need to call +64 9 358 5453 Make sure you know what to do at the different traffic light settings. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at all traffic light settings. Traffic lights --- Section Separator --- If you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. --- Section Separator --- Cook Islands Quarantine-free travel from some Pacific Islands Niue
Home International travel Travel with the Pacific Islands Niue --- Section Separator --- You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to do a pre-departure test for COVID-19, self-test on arrival, or go into a managed isolation facility. You also do not need a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. If you are travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from Niue are likely to be New Zealand citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) If you are in Niue and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following criteria: You have not been overseas outside of Niue and New Zealand in the past 14 days. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. You must wear a face mask while in the airport in New Zealand. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must be vaccinated. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Departures from Niue International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You are encouraged to wear a face mask at the airport. You will get information about when to wear face masks, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from Niue. If you feel unwell at Niue International Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you may need to self-isolate on arrival. You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to Niue is delayed. If you are travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free from Niue, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. It is important to keep track of high-risk locations you have been at and who you have been with, so you know who to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. If you have the NZ COVID Tracer app, you can use the digital diary to keep a record of where you have been, and who you were with. If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. How to keep track of where you have been Haku tohi Muitua NZ COVID | My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (Niuean) [PDF, 668 KB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] You should keep your Bluetooth tracing turned on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) You must wear a face mask on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face mask in many public places in New Zealand. Some people do not need to wear a face mask. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, call Healthline for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you are using an International SIM, you will need to call +64 9 358 5453 Make sure you know what to do at different traffic lights: Traffic lights If you travel from Niue to New Zealand and you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue. To get approval to travel, you must: Be eligible to travel to Niue. Meet conditions set by the Niuean Government, including having been in New Zealand for 14 days before you depart. If you are going to enter 14 days of quarantine in Niue, you must provide 1 negative COVID-19 test result within 4 working days of your scheduled departure. If you are applying for 14 days of self-isolation, you must provide 2 negative COVID-19 test results — 4 working days before your scheduled departure, and 9 days before that. Complete the exit health clearance process at Auckland International Airport. Niue Health will confirm the dates of your COVID-19 tests with you when your travel is approved. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu --- Section Separator --- You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to do a pre-departure test for COVID-19, self-test on arrival, or go into a managed isolation facility. You also do not need a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available on designated commercial airlines only. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from Niue are likely to be New Zealand citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are in Niue and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following criteria: You have not been overseas outside of Niue and New Zealand in the past 14 days. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. You must wear a face mask while in the airport in New Zealand. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must be vaccinated. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Departures from Niue International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You are encouraged to wear a face mask at the airport. You will get information about when to wear face masks, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from Niue. If you feel unwell at Niue International Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you may need to self-isolate on arrival. --- Section Separator --- You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to Niue is delayed. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free from Niue, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. It is important to keep track of high-risk locations you have been at and who you have been with, so you know who to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. If you have the NZ COVID Tracer app, you can use the digital diary to keep a record of where you have been, and who you were with. If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. How to keep track of where you have been Haku tohi Muitua NZ COVID | My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (Niuean) [PDF, 668 KB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] You should keep your Bluetooth tracing turned on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) You must wear a face mask on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face mask in many public places in New Zealand. Some people do not need to wear a face mask. Who needs to wear a face mask If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, call Healthline for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you are using an International SIM, you will need to call +64 9 358 5453 Make sure you know what to do at different traffic lights: Traffic lights --- Section Separator --- If you travel from Niue to New Zealand and you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. --- Section Separator --- The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue. To get approval to travel, you must: Be eligible to travel to Niue. Meet conditions set by the Niuean Government, including having been in New Zealand for 14 days before you depart. If you are going to enter 14 days of quarantine in Niue, you must provide 1 negative COVID-19 test result within 4 working days of your scheduled departure. If you are applying for 14 days of self-isolation, you must provide 2 negative COVID-19 test results — 4 working days before your scheduled departure, and 9 days before that. Complete the exit health clearance process at Auckland International Airport. Niue Health will confirm the dates of your COVID-19 tests with you when your travel is approved. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu --- Section Separator --- Cook Islands Quarantine-free travel from some Pacific Islands Niue
Home Isolation and care After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you have recently had COVID-19, you can have a flu jab as soon as you have recovered. Getting a flu jab | health.govt.nz (external link) After you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate as a Household Contact for 3 months, if someone else in your household tests positive during this time. You should not have further COVID-19 tests for 28 days from when your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. After 28 days, if you get new symptoms, take a RAT. If it is positive, you would be considered a new case — you will need to re-isolate and follow the guidance for people who have COVID-19. While you can get COVID-19 again at any time, the chance of reinfection in the 3 months after recovery is low. If you take a PCR test in the 3 months following recovery, you are likely to get a positive result even if you do not have a new infection. This is because this type of test is very sensitive and you still have the virus in your system. If you need a PCR test for any reason in this period, you can talk to your doctor about getting a medical exemption. If you continue to feel unwell, talk to your doctor or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Post COVID-19 condition | who.int (external link) Long COVID | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated or had your booster, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. You should wait 3 months after recovery before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- If you have recently had COVID-19, you can have a flu jab as soon as you have recovered. Getting a flu jab | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- After you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate as a Household Contact for 3 months, if someone else in your household tests positive during this time. You should not have further COVID-19 tests for 28 days from when your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. After 28 days, if you get new symptoms, take a RAT. If it is positive, you would be considered a new case — you will need to re-isolate and follow the guidance for people who have COVID-19. While you can get COVID-19 again at any time, the chance of reinfection in the 3 months after recovery is low. If you take a PCR test in the 3 months following recovery, you are likely to get a positive result even if you do not have a new infection. This is because this type of test is very sensitive and you still have the virus in your system. If you need a PCR test for any reason in this period, you can talk to your doctor about getting a medical exemption. If you continue to feel unwell, talk to your doctor or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Post COVID-19 condition | who.int (external link) Long COVID | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated or had your booster, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. You should wait 3 months after recovery before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 How to self-isolate After you have had COVID-19 Help when you are self-isolating How to self-manage COVID-19 Financial support
Home Isolation and care Financial support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. --- Section Separator --- Answer these questions to find out what financial support you could get. There are different support options if you are an employer, are self-employed or a sole trader, or if you are an employee. --- Section Separator --- If you or someone in your household are waiting for a COVID-19 PCR test result and need to stay home, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply to help pay you. You can also apply if you are self-employed. You employer can get a one-off payment of $359. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you cannot work from home while you are self-isolating, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer needs to apply for you. Y ou can also apply if you are self-employed. You may also be eligible for the scheme if you or someone you care for is at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Your employer can get $600 per week if you work full time, and $359 per week if you work part time to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) Extra help while you are self-isolating | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job or you cannot work at the moment, you may be able to get help from Work and Income. Use the online tool to find out what type of help you may qualify for. Support if you are not working | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you have lost your job because you decide not to get the COVID-19 vaccination, Work and Income may be able to help. You can: apply for benefits or other financial support ask them to help you find another job. You can get financial support from Work and Income regardless of your vaccination status. Lost job because of vaccination requirement | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The targeted COVID-19 Support Payment (CSP) is available for businesses struggling with revenue during the Omicron outbreak. The CSP is a payment to help support viable and ongoing businesses or organisations which have experienced a 40% or more drop in revenue due to COVID-19 circumstances. Who is eligible and how to apply for the COVID-19 Support Payment | ird.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job, cannot work or are working fewer hours, you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent, board, or the cost of owning a home power, gas, heating or water bills medical and dental costs. You do not need to be on a benefit to get financial support. Help for you and your whānau during COVID-19 | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) Call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 or use their online calculator to check what you might be eligible for. Check what you might get | msd.govt.nz (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your employment has been affected and you are experiencing financial hardship, or you need help getting home, your embassy or consulate may be able to help. People on a temporary visa are not eligible for help from Work and Income. Contact details of your country's embassy, consulate or high commission (external link) (external link) If you are an international student and are experiencing financial hardship, we recommend you speak to your education provider or student association. They may be able to offer you free budgeting advice, or tell you about funds that are available.
Home Isolation and care Help when you are self-isolating --- Section Separator --- Most people will be able to manage self-isolation with help from whānau and friends, but there is help available for you and your household if you need it. You may be able to get: money to pay for urgent and essential costs, like food, medicine and some bills support from community groups, iwi and Pacific groups in your area, or supplies delivered to you. Anyone can request help — you do not need to be getting a benefit. Work and Income have an online form where you can request support from a community organisation for your household, or to apply for money for urgent costs. Request help | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you prefer, you can call Work and Income's COVID-19 Welfare line for free on 0800 512 337 . It is open 8am to 5pm Monday to Friday, and 8am to 1pm Saturday, Sunday and public holidays. If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. Keep in touch with your friends and whānau, your healthcare provider, and any community groups you are in contact with. They can: check how you are feeling monitor your health check if you need basic supplies like food or medicines. It is important you answer your phone while you are self-isolating. There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. If your income has been affected Money to help with urgent costs | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. Find helplines to get support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support --- Section Separator --- Most people will be able to manage self-isolation with help from whānau and friends, but there is help available for you and your household if you need it. You may be able to get: money to pay for urgent and essential costs, like food, medicine and some bills support from community groups, iwi and Pacific groups in your area, or supplies delivered to you. Anyone can request help — you do not need to be getting a benefit. Work and Income have an online form where you can request support from a community organisation for your household, or to apply for money for urgent costs. Request help | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you prefer, you can call Work and Income's COVID-19 Welfare line for free on 0800 512 337 . It is open 8am to 5pm Monday to Friday, and 8am to 1pm Saturday, Sunday and public holidays. If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- Keep in touch with your friends and whānau, your healthcare provider, and any community groups you are in contact with. They can: check how you are feeling monitor your health check if you need basic supplies like food or medicines. It is important you answer your phone while you are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. If your income has been affected Money to help with urgent costs | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. Find helplines to get support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 How to self-isolate After you have had COVID-19 Help when you are self-isolating How to self-manage COVID-19 Financial support
What to do if you have tested positive for COVID-19 or are a probable case. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health will send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers confirming your positive test result. The text will provide information about self-isolation, support options and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you had a PCR test, you will get a text message with your result. If you had a rapid antigen test (RAT), you will get a text message after you have reported your results through My Covid Record or by phone. This can take up to 24 hours. How to report your RAT results --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation reduces the risks of spreading the virus to others. You will need to isolate for at least 7 days while you recover. Your 7 days start from Day 0 — the day your symptoms started or the day you got tested. You do not need a test to leave isolation. If you do, the result would likely show as positive but that does not mean you are infectious. If you are still sick, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. What you need to know when you are self-isolating Your Household Contacts will also need to self-isolate. Advice for your Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- COVID-19, especially the Omicron variant, is highly infectious. You are protecting your health and theirs by telling them as soon as possible. You need to tell the people you live with, your workplace or school and other close contacts Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) Complete the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing form using the 6-digit access code you received in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. For most people, it will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and have not completed the form within 12 hours, you will get a phone call. Complete the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19, especially if they are fully vaccinated and boosted, are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to self-manage. If you need any advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you call. This can include if you or someone you care for has: severe shortness of breath or difficulty breathing severe chest pain or discomfort difficulty waking up or is very drowsy. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. --- Section Separator --- If you are still sick, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. You should avoid any high-risk settings if you are still unwell. You may receive a text message but you do not need to wait for an official message or release to leave isolation. You do not need to be tested. If you were, the result would likely show as positive but that does not mean you are infectious. Your Household Contacts can complete their isolation at the same time as you, as long as their Day 7 test was negative and they have no new or worsening symptoms. If their tests are positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months, if someone else in your household tests positive during that time. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period if you have had COVID-19 is low. If someone you live with tests positive during that 3 months, the other members of your household will need to isolate again. There are a few other things you should do: After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can co-ordinate extra support for you if you need it. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available.
Home Isolation and care If you have COVID-19 If you get COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- People who test positive for COVID-19 and their Household Contacts must self-isolate. This page is for people who find out they must self-isolate when they are travelling. You could get COVID-19 or find out you are a Household Contact while you are away from home on holiday or for work. Have a plan for what you need to do. Plan how to get home safely to isolate — you can only return home if you or someone you are travelling with can drive there. Talk through the plan with your travelling companions. If you cannot drive home, it is likely you will need to stay where you are for your isolation period. If you test positive for COVID-19 If you get cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while away from home, get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home. Order a rapid antigen test (RAT) online and pick up from your nearest collection point. Order online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Find a COVID-19 collection point | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) COVID-19 symptoms You should tell your accommodation provider if you have tested positive. They can make sure the property is safe for the next booking. More advice around temporary accommodation can be found on the Ministry of Health website: Guidance for isolating in temporary or holiday accommodation | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive or you are a Household Contact, you cannot: take a commercial flight home do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. If you are away for work, accommodation can be arranged by you or your employer. You do not need to seek permission to do this. If you have to self-isolate where you are, you will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. Care in the Community Getting help if you are self-isolating Check the COVID-19 Health Hub for advice. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Plan: who can look after your house if necessary who can care for your pets what things to take with you to help with boredom while isolating to have enough money to cover an extended time away from home, for example accommodation costs a list of medical information — include names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions, and medication or medical supplies each person with you needs. You will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines. How to self-isolate If you or your travelling companions can drive home in a private or work vehicle, then you can do so. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you need to plan: your route home how you would get fuel — you should only stop at a contactless petrol station supplies for the journey home to reduce the number of stops you make. You must not use public transport or do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. Remember to keep up healthy habits If you are borrowing or renting a car, tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle afterwards. Once you are home, follow the self-isolation guidance. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- People who test positive for COVID-19 and their Household Contacts must self-isolate. This page is for people who find out they must self-isolate when they are travelling. --- Section Separator --- You could get COVID-19 or find out you are a Household Contact while you are away from home on holiday or for work. Have a plan for what you need to do. Plan how to get home safely to isolate — you can only return home if you or someone you are travelling with can drive there. Talk through the plan with your travelling companions. If you cannot drive home, it is likely you will need to stay where you are for your isolation period. If you test positive for COVID-19 If you get cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while away from home, get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home. Order a rapid antigen test (RAT) online and pick up from your nearest collection point. Order online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Find a COVID-19 collection point | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- You should tell your accommodation provider if you have tested positive. They can make sure the property is safe for the next booking. More advice around temporary accommodation can be found on the Ministry of Health website: Guidance for isolating in temporary or holiday accommodation | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you test positive or you are a Household Contact, you cannot: take a commercial flight home do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. If you are away for work, accommodation can be arranged by you or your employer. You do not need to seek permission to do this. If you have to self-isolate where you are, you will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. Care in the Community Getting help if you are self-isolating Check the COVID-19 Health Hub for advice. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Plan: who can look after your house if necessary who can care for your pets what things to take with you to help with boredom while isolating to have enough money to cover an extended time away from home, for example accommodation costs a list of medical information — include names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions, and medication or medical supplies each person with you needs. You will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you or your travelling companions can drive home in a private or work vehicle, then you can do so. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you need to plan: your route home how you would get fuel — you should only stop at a contactless petrol station supplies for the journey home to reduce the number of stops you make. You must not use public transport or do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. Remember to keep up healthy habits If you are borrowing or renting a car, tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle afterwards. Once you are home, follow the self-isolation guidance. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you get COVID-19 while travelling
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. --- Section Separator --- Our COVID-19 information is currently under review and will be updated as soon as possible. Alternate formats are in Easy Read, New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL), braille, audio and Large Print. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. --- Section Separator --- On Friday 25 March, the traffic light settings changed. The COVID-19 Protection Framework is now simpler. It helps us manage life with Omicron while reducing the impact of future outbreaks. Changes to the traffic light settings Information about the changes is also available in alternate formats : New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Audio description Testing and tracing (with audio description) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description) Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description)
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Audio description COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) --- Section Separator --- In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. --- Section Separator --- In early 2020, a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) spread quickly around the world. It caused a serious disease called COVID-19, which has since killed over 4 million people. To protect those we love, Aotearoa New Zealand went into lockdown. We also introduced Alert Levels, managed borders, contact tracing and started sanitising our hands and wearing face coverings to stay safe. Getting vaccinated is the next step to gain more protection against the virus, which will lead to more certainty for the future. Find out more with NZ Vaccine Facts. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description) Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description)
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Audio description Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description) Prepare and stay safe (with audio description) COVID-19 vaccines (with audio description) Testing and tracing (with audio description)
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Braille --- Section Separator --- Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. Changes to the traffic light system [BRF, 2 KB] Life at Red [BRF, 10 KB] Life at Orange [BRF, 6 KB] The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 5 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Everything you need to know about the Pfizer Booster [BRF, 6 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] COVID-19 testing [BRF, 3 KB] When you should get a test [BRF, 3 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] How contact tracing works [BRF, 4 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 3 KB] Isolating at home [BRF, 6 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] Travel within New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. --- Section Separator --- Changes to the traffic light system [BRF, 2 KB] Life at Red [BRF, 10 KB] Life at Orange [BRF, 6 KB] --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 5 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Everything you need to know about the Pfizer Booster [BRF, 6 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 testing [BRF, 3 KB] When you should get a test [BRF, 3 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] How contact tracing works [BRF, 4 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [BRF, 6 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travel within New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 2.1 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 4.6 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 1.5 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 2.1 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 4.6 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 1.5 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Isolation and care (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 2.7 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 10 MB] Wearing a face mask [PDF, 1.9 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 10 MB] Wearing a face mask [PDF, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Support (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need at Orange [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Getting the support you need at Orange [PDF, 1 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need at Orange [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Getting the support you need at Orange [PDF, 1 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [DOCX, 2.7 MB] Looking after yourself when you are feeling sick [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Contact tracing (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5.7 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.5 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5.7 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Testing (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- When should you get a COVID-19 test [DOCX, 6 MB] When should you get a COVID-19 test [PDF, 1.7 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [DOCX, 17 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [PDF, 2.6 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [DOCX, 14 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [PDF, 2.3 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [DOCX, 5.4 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [PDF, 1.5 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [PDF, 2.8 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- When should you get a COVID-19 test [DOCX, 6 MB] When should you get a COVID-19 test [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [DOCX, 17 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [PDF, 2.6 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [DOCX, 14 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [PDF, 2.3 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [DOCX, 5.4 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [PDF, 2.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- On Friday 25 March, the traffic light settings changed. The COVID-19 Protection Framework is now simpler. It helps us manage life with Omicron while reducing the impact of future outbreaks. Changes to the traffic light settings Information about the changes is also available in alternate formats : New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Changes to the traffic light system rules [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Changes to the traffic light system rules [PDF, 1.5 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [DOCX, 9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [DOCX, 8.8 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [PDF, 1.6 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [DOCX, 6.5 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [DOCX, 14 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [PDF, 1.7 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Education at Orange [DOCX, 5.9 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Education at Orange [PDF, 1.5 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [DOCX, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [PDF, 1 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Meeting with other people at Orange [DOCX, 4.6 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Meeting with other people at Orange [PDF, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Travel at Orange [DOCX, 4.7 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Travel at Orange [PDF, 1011 KB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- On Friday 25 March, the traffic light settings changed. The COVID-19 Protection Framework is now simpler. It helps us manage life with Omicron while reducing the impact of future outbreaks. Changes to the traffic light settings Information about the changes is also available in alternate formats : New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille --- Section Separator --- Changes to the traffic light system rules [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Changes to the traffic light system rules [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [DOCX, 9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [DOCX, 8.8 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [PDF, 1.6 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [DOCX, 6.5 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [DOCX, 14 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [PDF, 1.7 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Education at Orange [DOCX, 5.9 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Education at Orange [PDF, 1.5 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [DOCX, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [PDF, 1 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Meeting with other people at Orange [DOCX, 4.6 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Meeting with other people at Orange [PDF, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Travel at Orange [DOCX, 4.7 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Travel at Orange [PDF, 1011 KB] --- Section Separator --- Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Travel (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [DOCX, 19 MB] Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [PDF, 3.4 MB] The 5-step plan to reopen New Zealand borders [DOCX, 5.4 MB] The 5-step plan to reopen New Zealand borders [PDF, 1.7 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [PDF, 2.4 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [DOCX, 19 MB] Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [PDF, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- The 5-step plan to reopen New Zealand borders [DOCX, 5.4 MB] The 5-step plan to reopen New Zealand borders [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [PDF, 2.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. --- Section Separator --- On Friday 25 March, the traffic light settings changed. The COVID-19 Protection Framework is now simpler. It helps us manage life with Omicron while reducing the impact of future outbreaks. Changes to the traffic light settings Information about the changes is also available in alternate formats : New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to and from New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to and from New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- About the Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 117 KB] Everything you need to know about the Pfizer booster [DOCX, 115 KB] About the AstraZeneca vaccine [DOCX, 117 KB] About the Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.2 MB] Everything you need to know about the Pfizer booster [MP3, 9.1 MB] About the AstraZeneca vaccine [MP3, 3.2 MB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- About the Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 117 KB] Everything you need to know about the Pfizer booster [DOCX, 115 KB] About the AstraZeneca vaccine [DOCX, 117 KB] About the Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.2 MB] Everything you need to know about the Pfizer booster [MP3, 9.1 MB] About the AstraZeneca vaccine [MP3, 3.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 542 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 3.3 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 542 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 3.3 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 536 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 2.3 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 536 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 2.3 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Support (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 72 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 72 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 testing [DOCX, 543 KB] When you should get a test [DOCX, 540 KB] How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 540 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 543 KB] COVID-19 testing [MP3, 1.4 MB] When you should get a test [MP3, 1.7 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 2.8 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 541 KB] How contact tracing works [DOCX, 542 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] How contact tracing works [MP3, 2.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.4 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 testing [DOCX, 543 KB] When you should get a test [DOCX, 540 KB] How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 540 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 543 KB] COVID-19 testing [MP3, 1.4 MB] When you should get a test [MP3, 1.7 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 2.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 541 KB] How contact tracing works [DOCX, 542 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] How contact tracing works [MP3, 2.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.4 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Changes to the Traffic Light system [DOCX, 538 KB] Life at Red [DOCX, 546 KB] Life at Orange [DOCX, 543 KB] Changes to the traffic light system [MP3, 693 KB] Life at Red [MP3, 5 MB] Life at Orange [MP3, 3.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Changes to the Traffic Light system [DOCX, 538 KB] Life at Red [DOCX, 546 KB] Life at Orange [DOCX, 543 KB] Changes to the traffic light system [MP3, 693 KB] Life at Red [MP3, 5 MB] Life at Orange [MP3, 3.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Travel (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Travelling around New Zealand at different traffic light settings [DOCX, 542 KB] Leaving New Zealand [DOCX, 539 KB] Leaving New Zealand [MP3, 3.5 MB] Re-opening New Zealand's borders [DOCX, 543 KB] Travellers to New Zealand — Isolation guide [DOCX, 541 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travelling around New Zealand at different traffic light settings [DOCX, 542 KB] --- Section Separator --- Leaving New Zealand [DOCX, 539 KB] Leaving New Zealand [MP3, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Re-opening New Zealand's borders [DOCX, 543 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travellers to New Zealand — Isolation guide [DOCX, 541 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). --- Section Separator --- On Friday 25 March, the traffic light settings changed. The COVID-19 Protection Framework is now simpler. It helps us manage life with Omicron while reducing the impact of future outbreaks. Changes to the traffic light settings Information about the changes is also available in alternate formats : New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in NZSL, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information is NZSL about travelling to and from New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in NZSL about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in NZSL, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information is NZSL about travelling to and from New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in NZSL about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Getting the COVID-19 vaccine (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Proving you are vaccinated (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- The Government no longer requires My Vaccine Pass to be used to access businesses, events and services. Businesses can still choose to require My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry if there are health and safety reasons for doing so. Some workers are still required to be vaccinated. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- The Government no longer requires My Vaccine Pass to be used to access businesses, events and services. Businesses can still choose to require My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry if there are health and safety reasons for doing so. Some workers are still required to be vaccinated. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Vaccinations for children (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Isolation and care (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Face masks (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Information about COVID-19 (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Preparing for COVID-19 (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Support (NZSL) Available support (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Support (NZSL) Looking after your mental wellbeing (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Testing and tracing (NZSL) Contact tracing (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Testing and tracing (NZSL) Testing (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) Traffic light settings (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Travel (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Posters Get your household and business traffic light ready by downloading our posters and resources. --- Section Separator --- You can view and download all our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. We have included a selection of posters here to help you get your business ready for the traffic light system. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) You can also order free C OVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- What type of contact are you? [PNG, 907 KB] How to work out your days of self-isolation [PNG, 926 KB] Household Contacts — what you need to do [PNG, 903 KB] Testing positive at different times [PNG, 1 MB] Do you need a test to leave isolation? [PNG, 857 KB] Got any symptoms? [JPG, 489 KB] Test results [JPG, 527 KB] How to self-isolate [JPG, 605 KB] Need support? [JPG, 501 KB] What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [JPG, 539 KB] What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 167 KB] --- Section Separator --- There is no requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses can choose to check My Vaccine Pass if they would like to. If your business chooses to, you could display a poster to let people know: Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry [PDF, 86 KB] Find out more about My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- Make a plan if you get COVID-19 [PDF, 176 KB] Kia ora — we're self-isolating. Please do not enter [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to wear a face mask safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face mask [PDF, 115 KB] How to sew your own face mask [PDF, 160 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Honoa mai ki ngā whakaohiti mō ngā pārongo KŌWHEORI-19 kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori --- Section Separator --- Anei ngā whakahoutanga KOWHEORI-19 hou rawa: Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? [PDF, 108 KB] What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms Me pēhea te rapu Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere How to get a Rapid Antigen Test Me pēhea te pūrongo i ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results Me pēhea te whakamahi i te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form --- Section Separator --- E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19, i te wā e tuku ana i ngā herekoretanga nui ake ki te hunga whai tohu ārai mate. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Haere kia werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate kore utu ināianei, ā, ka wete i ngā here ki ngā mea e arohatia ana e koe mā Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. E haere ai koe i roto o Aotearoa, e tae mai ai koe i tāwāhi rānei, ka mate pea koe ki te whiwhi tiwhikete e tohu ana i tō tūnga kano ārai mate, te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, te kuhu atu rānei ki te wāhi noho taratahi. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo. --- Section Separator --- E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19, i te wā e tuku ana i ngā herekoretanga nui ake ki te hunga whai tohu ārai mate. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Haere kia werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate kore utu ināianei, ā, ka wete i ngā here ki ngā mea e arohatia ana e koe mā Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. E haere ai koe i roto o Aotearoa, e tae mai ai koe i tāwāhi rānei, ka mate pea koe ki te whiwhi tiwhikete e tohu ana i tō tūnga kano ārai mate, te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, te kuhu atu rānei ki te wāhi noho taratahi. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā ārai kanohi me ngā maruhā | Face coverings and masks Te mau ārai kanohi | Wearing a face covering --- Section Separator --- Ko te tikanga pai, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare. Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: i runga waka rererangi rāroto i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā tēkehi me ngā waka kawe-tiri i roto i nga pakihi hokohoko, hei tauira ngā hokomaha, ngā mōro, ngā kēmehi, ngā whare hinu me ngā whare ō rangaranga i roto i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, hei tauira, ngā whare taonga me ngā whare pukapuka, engari kaua i ngā whare kaukau i ngā whare whakaora kararehe i ngā wāhi tūmatanui o ngā kōti, ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori me ngā Whare Pirihimana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā ratonga tiaki hauora, hei tauira, ngā whare tiaki kaumātua. Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: i ngā wāhi manaaki i ngā pakihi tūtata ki te tangata, hei tauira, mēnā he kaikuti makawe koe i tētahi kaupapa (kia mōhio mai, i ngā huihuinga, e herea ana anake ngā kaimahi ki te mau i ngā maruhā noa) Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. Hei ture ahuwhānui, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare.Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: i runga waka rererangi rāroto i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi ūnga, wehe rānei o ngā rererangi ā-motu me ngā waka kawe tūmatanui mēnā kei rō whare. mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 8 tau, he tauira rānei kei te Tau 4, piki ake rānei, kei runga waka kawe tūmatanui, me ngā kawenga e utua ana e Te Tāhuhu o te Mātauranga i ngā tēkehi me ngā waka kawe-tiri i roto i nga pakihi hokohoko, hei tauira ngā hokomaha, ngā mōro, ngā kēmehi, ngā whare hinu me ngā whare ō rangaranga i roto i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, hei tauira, ngā whare taonga me ngā whare pukapuka, engari kaua i ngā whare kaukau i ngā whare whakaora kararehe i ngā taiao i rō whare i te kura, hei tauira, ngā akomanga me ngā huihuinga kura. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā manuhiri, ngā kaimahi, ngā ākonga me ngā kaiako i ngā Tau 4 ki te 13 i rō whare mātauranga matua ina haere ki tētahi kura kōhungahunga rēhita i ngā whare kai, whare inu hoki. Ka āhei koe ki te tango i tō maruhā ki te kai, te inu me te korikori tinana i ngā pākihi tūtata, hei tauira, ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā whare pani kanohi ina haere koe ki tētahi huihuinga i rō whare, hāunga i te wā nōu ake te kaupapa, ā, he motuhake. i ngā wāhi tūmatanui o ngā kōti, ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori me ngā Whare Pirihimana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā ratonga tiaki hauora, hei tauira, ngā whare tiaki kaumātua. Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: i ngā wāhi manaaki i ngā pakihi tūtata ki te tangata, hei tauira, mēnā he kaikuti makawe koe i roto i ngā whare whakapakari tinana i tētahi huihuinga ngā kaiako o ngā ākonga Tau 4 ki te 13. Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama e toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru.E kore pea e mārama te kite atu i te take o te whakawāteatanga. Nō reira kia māhaki. Mēnā he whakawāteatanga tōu, kaua e māharahara ina pātai tētahi pakihi, kaimahi rānei ki a koe mēnā e taea ana e koe te mau maruhā. Ko tāna noa he whakarite i tō haumarutanga, me ō ētahi atu.Kāore i te tika kia pātai te pakihi, te kaimahi rānei ki a koe i te āhua o tō hauātanga, tō mate rānei. Engari, he tika ana kia tirohia e ia tō tohu whakawātea i te kore mau maruhā. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Ko te tikanga pai, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare. Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: i runga waka rererangi rāroto i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā tēkehi me ngā waka kawe-tiri i roto i nga pakihi hokohoko, hei tauira ngā hokomaha, ngā mōro, ngā kēmehi, ngā whare hinu me ngā whare ō rangaranga i roto i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, hei tauira, ngā whare taonga me ngā whare pukapuka, engari kaua i ngā whare kaukau i ngā whare whakaora kararehe i ngā wāhi tūmatanui o ngā kōti, ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori me ngā Whare Pirihimana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā ratonga tiaki hauora, hei tauira, ngā whare tiaki kaumātua. Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: i ngā wāhi manaaki i ngā pakihi tūtata ki te tangata, hei tauira, mēnā he kaikuti makawe koe i tētahi kaupapa (kia mōhio mai, i ngā huihuinga, e herea ana anake ngā kaimahi ki te mau i ngā maruhā noa) Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. Hei ture ahuwhānui, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare.Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: i runga waka rererangi rāroto i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi ūnga, wehe rānei o ngā rererangi ā-motu me ngā waka kawe tūmatanui mēnā kei rō whare. mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 8 tau, he tauira rānei kei te Tau 4, piki ake rānei, kei runga waka kawe tūmatanui, me ngā kawenga e utua ana e Te Tāhuhu o te Mātauranga i ngā tēkehi me ngā waka kawe-tiri i roto i nga pakihi hokohoko, hei tauira ngā hokomaha, ngā mōro, ngā kēmehi, ngā whare hinu me ngā whare ō rangaranga i roto i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, hei tauira, ngā whare taonga me ngā whare pukapuka, engari kaua i ngā whare kaukau i ngā whare whakaora kararehe i ngā taiao i rō whare i te kura, hei tauira, ngā akomanga me ngā huihuinga kura. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā manuhiri, ngā kaimahi, ngā ākonga me ngā kaiako i ngā Tau 4 ki te 13 i rō whare mātauranga matua ina haere ki tētahi kura kōhungahunga rēhita i ngā whare kai, whare inu hoki. Ka āhei koe ki te tango i tō maruhā ki te kai, te inu me te korikori tinana i ngā pākihi tūtata, hei tauira, ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā whare pani kanohi ina haere koe ki tētahi huihuinga i rō whare, hāunga i te wā nōu ake te kaupapa, ā, he motuhake. i ngā wāhi tūmatanui o ngā kōti, ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori me ngā Whare Pirihimana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā ratonga tiaki hauora, hei tauira, ngā whare tiaki kaumātua. Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: i ngā wāhi manaaki i ngā pakihi tūtata ki te tangata, hei tauira, mēnā he kaikuti makawe koe i roto i ngā whare whakapakari tinana i tētahi huihuinga ngā kaiako o ngā ākonga Tau 4 ki te 13. Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama e toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru.E kore pea e mārama te kite atu i te take o te whakawāteatanga. Nō reira kia māhaki. Mēnā he whakawāteatanga tōu, kaua e māharahara ina pātai tētahi pakihi, kaimahi rānei ki a koe mēnā e taea ana e koe te mau maruhā. Ko tāna noa he whakarite i tō haumarutanga, me ō ētahi atu.Kāore i te tika kia pātai te pakihi, te kaimahi rānei ki a koe i te āhua o tō hauātanga, tō mate rānei. Engari, he tika ana kia tirohia e ia tō tohu whakawātea i te kore mau maruhā. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā pārongo mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Information about COVID-19 Ngā momo KOWHEORI-19 | COVID-19 variants --- Section Separator --- Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] He tikanga noa te huringa, te irakētanga rānei o ngā wheori. Kua rerekē te āhua o te wheori KOWHEORI-19 i te hekenga o te wā, i a ia e urutau ana ki te tangata. Nā tēnei i hua mai ai ngā momo hou o te wheori, tae atu ki te momo Delta, Omicron hoki. Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. I tere te hora a te momo Delta puta noa i te ao Te Hunga e Pokea ana e te Delta: ka kino ake te whanaketanga o ngā māuiuitanga KOWHEORI-19 i ētahi atu momo o te wheori he nui ake te mōrearea ka whakaurua atu ki rō hōhipera te āhua nei he nui ake te kawenga o te wheori (he kawenga wheori nui ake) ā, he roa ake te wā e kawea ana, tērā i ētahi atu momo kāore pea ōna tohumate (he tohumate-kore) ina maunoa taua mate Mā te whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate e rua, ka whai ārainga nui koe i te pokenga Delta, ā, he ārainga nui ake hoki i te mate taumaha, te noho hōhipera me te mate tonu atu. He 64–95% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki te māuiui whai tohumate. Kua tata ki te 90–96% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō te karo i te whakaurunga ki te hohipera, i te māuiui taumaha rānei nā te whakapokenga Delta. I kitea tuatahitia te Omicron i te Whiringa-ā-nuku 2021, ā, i whakatauhia hei momo mōrearea e te World Health Organisation. Kua tere hora puta noa ki te ao, ā, e kitea ana i ngā whenua neke atu i te 70. E whakaatu ana ngā taunakitanga tōmua he tūpono nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron i ērā o ngā momo o te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te Delta. E ako tonu ana mātou mō tēnei momo o te wheori. E whakaatu ana ngā pūrongo tōmua, ina whakatauritehia ki te Delta: He nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron Tērā pea he ōrite tonu pea ngā tohumate, engari e tāria ana ētahi atu raraunga He ōrite ngā pāpātanga hōhipera o te Omicron, engari e tāria tonutia ana ētahi atu mōhiohio hei whakatau i te kaha o te tahumaero. E tohu ana ngā tātaritanga tōmua tērā ka puta anō he āraitanga i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te tahumaero ā-tohumate ka hua mai i te Omicron, engari ka heke haere tēnei āraitanga ā tōna wā. Ka nui ake te āraitanga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te pota āpiti. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 ) ki te whakarite tāpui. He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Kāore tētahi kano āraimate e eke ki te 100% te whaihuatanga, nō reira he tūponotanga anō kei pāngia tētahi tangata whai kano ārai mate ki te momo Delta, me te tuku i te wheori ki ētahi atu. Nō reira me whakamahi i ngā āhuatanga katoa e wātea ana, tae atu ki te kano ārai mate, ki te tiaki i a tātou me ō tātou hapori i te mate. Mā te kitenga wawe i ngā kēhi, te whai i ngā tapuwae, me te whakataratahi i ngā kēhi me ā rātou pānga, he waiwai ki te whakamutu i te horanga o ngā momo katoa o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e tātou te takahi wawe atu i ngā pakarutanga ki ngā hapori mā te: Te whai i ngā ture rama toru . Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā e herea ana e ngā ture Pae Mataara. Te noho tawhiti ā-tinana i te 2m mēnā ka taea. Te noho ki te kāinga mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu me te waea atu ki Healthline i runga i te 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu mō te rapu whakamātautau . Te whai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te matawai i ngā waehere QR, mā te tuhi rānei i ngā tuhipoka āmiki. Mā te whakakā te whaiwhai hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer. --- Section Separator --- Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] --- Section Separator --- He tikanga noa te huringa, te irakētanga rānei o ngā wheori. Kua rerekē te āhua o te wheori KOWHEORI-19 i te hekenga o te wā, i a ia e urutau ana ki te tangata. Nā tēnei i hua mai ai ngā momo hou o te wheori, tae atu ki te momo Delta, Omicron hoki. Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. I tere te hora a te momo Delta puta noa i te ao Te Hunga e Pokea ana e te Delta: ka kino ake te whanaketanga o ngā māuiuitanga KOWHEORI-19 i ētahi atu momo o te wheori he nui ake te mōrearea ka whakaurua atu ki rō hōhipera te āhua nei he nui ake te kawenga o te wheori (he kawenga wheori nui ake) ā, he roa ake te wā e kawea ana, tērā i ētahi atu momo kāore pea ōna tohumate (he tohumate-kore) ina maunoa taua mate Mā te whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate e rua, ka whai ārainga nui koe i te pokenga Delta, ā, he ārainga nui ake hoki i te mate taumaha, te noho hōhipera me te mate tonu atu. He 64–95% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki te māuiui whai tohumate. Kua tata ki te 90–96% te whaihua o ngā potanga e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer mō te karo i te whakaurunga ki te hohipera, i te māuiui taumaha rānei nā te whakapokenga Delta. I kitea tuatahitia te Omicron i te Whiringa-ā-nuku 2021, ā, i whakatauhia hei momo mōrearea e te World Health Organisation. Kua tere hora puta noa ki te ao, ā, e kitea ana i ngā whenua neke atu i te 70. E whakaatu ana ngā taunakitanga tōmua he tūpono nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron i ērā o ngā momo o te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te Delta. E ako tonu ana mātou mō tēnei momo o te wheori. E whakaatu ana ngā pūrongo tōmua, ina whakatauritehia ki te Delta: He nui ake te rerenga o te Omicron Tērā pea he ōrite tonu pea ngā tohumate, engari e tāria ana ētahi atu raraunga He ōrite ngā pāpātanga hōhipera o te Omicron, engari e tāria tonutia ana ētahi atu mōhiohio hei whakatau i te kaha o te tahumaero. E tohu ana ngā tātaritanga tōmua tērā ka puta anō he āraitanga i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te tahumaero ā-tohumate ka hua mai i te Omicron, engari ka heke haere tēnei āraitanga ā tōna wā. Ka nui ake te āraitanga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te pota āpiti. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 ) ki te whakarite tāpui. He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Kāore tētahi kano āraimate e eke ki te 100% te whaihuatanga, nō reira he tūponotanga anō kei pāngia tētahi tangata whai kano ārai mate ki te momo Delta, me te tuku i te wheori ki ētahi atu. Nō reira me whakamahi i ngā āhuatanga katoa e wātea ana, tae atu ki te kano ārai mate, ki te tiaki i a tātou me ō tātou hapori i te mate. Mā te kitenga wawe i ngā kēhi, te whai i ngā tapuwae, me te whakataratahi i ngā kēhi me ā rātou pānga, he waiwai ki te whakamutu i te horanga o ngā momo katoa o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e tātou te takahi wawe atu i ngā pakarutanga ki ngā hapori mā te: Te whai i ngā ture rama toru . Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā e herea ana e ngā ture Pae Mataara. Te noho tawhiti ā-tinana i te 2m mēnā ka taea. Te noho ki te kāinga mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu me te waea atu ki Healthline i runga i te 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu mō te rapu whakamātautau . Te whai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te matawai i ngā waehere QR, mā te tuhi rānei i ngā tuhipoka āmiki. Mā te whakakā te whaiwhai hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā pārongo mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Information about COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms --- Section Separator --- Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] He mate te KOWHEORI-19 e ahu mai ana i te mate korona SARS-CoV-2. Ka pā kino ki ō pūkahukahu, arahau, me ētahi atu whēkau. Nō tētahi whānau huaketo nunui ngā mate korona e pā mai ai te mate. Arā, pērā i te whurū, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) me te Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). I kitea tuatahitia te SARS-CoV-2 i Haina, ā, ko te āhua nei i ahu mai i ngā kararehe. Kāore tonu i te mōhiotia i pēhea te whai pānga mai o te mate ki te tangata. Kua rerekē haere te huaketo i roto i te wā i tōna urutaunga ki te tangata. Ko ētahi o ēnei i rerekētanga, pērā i te Delta, ka māmā ake te hōrapa tēnā i te huaketo taketake, ā, ka kino te mate ka pā mai. Anei ētahi tohumate: he maremare hou, kei te kino kē atu rānei ka kirikā ka hē manawa mamae korokoro te matihe, ka rere te hūpē rānei kua kore e rongo te ihu mō tētahi wā, kua rerekē rānei te tāwara. Ehara i te mea e tohu ana ēnei tohumate kua pā mai te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te ōrite ēnei tohumate ki ētahi atu māuiui e tino kitea nei, pēnei i te rewharewha me te whurū. Tērā pea e tohu ana te hē manawa i te numonia, ā, me wawe te haere kia tirohia e te rata. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate o te rewharewha, whurū, KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 ka whiwhi tohutohu mō te whiwhi aromatawai. Ētahi tohumate kāore e tino kitea Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate kāore e tino kitea ka pā mai anake ko te: mate tikotiko ka ānini te māhunga mamae uaua, mamae tinana rānei whakapairuaki ruaki hūhi — he auhi, he mate, he maihi rānei mamae uma mamae puku mamae pona pōkaikaha me te kārangi. I ētahi wā he tata ki te 14 rā kātahi anō ka puta ngā tohumate i te tangata kua pāngia. Ka taea te tuku te huaketo ki ētahi atu tae atu ki te rua rā i mua i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka taea te tuku ki tētahi atu i mua i te mōhiotanga o te tangata kei a ia te KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ka hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 mai i tētahi ki tētahi. Ina whakahā, kōrero, maremare, matihe, waiata rānei te tangata mate, ka hōrapa pea ngā korakora kei roto te huaketo. He nui ake te mōrea o te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19: kei ngā wāhi kua katia kāore i te pai te rere o te hau i ngā wāhi he maha ngā tāngata he wāhi e pātata ana ngā tāngata, pērā i ngā kōrerorero e tata ana te tangata, te waiata, te hāparangi rānei. He iti iho te mōrea i waho, ā, he tokoiti ake ngā tāngata, mēnā e tāwhitiwhiti ana tētahi i tētahi. Ka taea e ēnei mahi māmā te whakapōturi te hōrapa o te huaketo me te āwhina ki te whakamaru i a koe, tō whānau, tō hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua pā mai te rewharewha, te whurū, ngā tohumate COVID-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki tō rata, Healthline rānei mō te koreutu i 0800 358 5453 . Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me mau ārai kanohi ina hiahiatia, ina uaua rānei te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Me mau haere tonu koe ki ngā wāhi i haere koe mā te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, mā ngā tuhituhi whai taipitopito. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. --- Section Separator --- Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] --- Section Separator --- He mate te KOWHEORI-19 e ahu mai ana i te mate korona SARS-CoV-2. Ka pā kino ki ō pūkahukahu, arahau, me ētahi atu whēkau. Nō tētahi whānau huaketo nunui ngā mate korona e pā mai ai te mate. Arā, pērā i te whurū, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) me te Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). I kitea tuatahitia te SARS-CoV-2 i Haina, ā, ko te āhua nei i ahu mai i ngā kararehe. Kāore tonu i te mōhiotia i pēhea te whai pānga mai o te mate ki te tangata. Kua rerekē haere te huaketo i roto i te wā i tōna urutaunga ki te tangata. Ko ētahi o ēnei i rerekētanga, pērā i te Delta, ka māmā ake te hōrapa tēnā i te huaketo taketake, ā, ka kino te mate ka pā mai. Anei ētahi tohumate: he maremare hou, kei te kino kē atu rānei ka kirikā ka hē manawa mamae korokoro te matihe, ka rere te hūpē rānei kua kore e rongo te ihu mō tētahi wā, kua rerekē rānei te tāwara. Ehara i te mea e tohu ana ēnei tohumate kua pā mai te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te ōrite ēnei tohumate ki ētahi atu māuiui e tino kitea nei, pēnei i te rewharewha me te whurū. Tērā pea e tohu ana te hē manawa i te numonia, ā, me wawe te haere kia tirohia e te rata. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate o te rewharewha, whurū, KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 ka whiwhi tohutohu mō te whiwhi aromatawai. Ētahi tohumate kāore e tino kitea Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate kāore e tino kitea ka pā mai anake ko te: mate tikotiko ka ānini te māhunga mamae uaua, mamae tinana rānei whakapairuaki ruaki hūhi — he auhi, he mate, he maihi rānei mamae uma mamae puku mamae pona pōkaikaha me te kārangi. I ētahi wā he tata ki te 14 rā kātahi anō ka puta ngā tohumate i te tangata kua pāngia. Ka taea te tuku te huaketo ki ētahi atu tae atu ki te rua rā i mua i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka taea te tuku ki tētahi atu i mua i te mōhiotanga o te tangata kei a ia te KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ka hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 mai i tētahi ki tētahi. Ina whakahā, kōrero, maremare, matihe, waiata rānei te tangata mate, ka hōrapa pea ngā korakora kei roto te huaketo. He nui ake te mōrea o te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19: kei ngā wāhi kua katia kāore i te pai te rere o te hau i ngā wāhi he maha ngā tāngata he wāhi e pātata ana ngā tāngata, pērā i ngā kōrerorero e tata ana te tangata, te waiata, te hāparangi rānei. He iti iho te mōrea i waho, ā, he tokoiti ake ngā tāngata, mēnā e tāwhitiwhiti ana tētahi i tētahi. Ka taea e ēnei mahi māmā te whakapōturi te hōrapa o te huaketo me te āwhina ki te whakamaru i a koe, tō whānau, tō hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua pā mai te rewharewha, te whurū, ngā tohumate COVID-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki tō rata, Healthline rānei mō te koreutu i 0800 358 5453 . Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me mau ārai kanohi ina hiahiatia, ina uaua rānei te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Me mau haere tonu koe ki ngā wāhi i haere koe mā te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, mā ngā tuhituhi whai taipitopito. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing --- Section Separator --- Mā te whaiwhai i te pātanga ka taea e mātau te kimi te hunga kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, tukuna haumarutia ō mōhiohio i runga ipurangi ki Te Manatū Hauora hei whakamōhio i ētahi atu me pēhea te tirotiro i ngā tohumate. --- Section Separator --- Mā te whaiwhai i te pātanga ka taea e mātau te kimi te hunga kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, tukuna haumarutia ō mōhiohio i runga ipurangi ki Te Manatū Hauora hei whakamōhio i ētahi atu me pēhea te tirotiro i ngā tohumate.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Te āhua o te mahi whaiwhai i te pātanga | How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Mēnā ka pāngia te tangata e te KOWHEORI-19, me kimi mātau i te hunga i whai pānga pea ki te mate. Koinei te whaiwhai i te pātanga. Ka āwhina te whaiwhai i te pātanga i hea e pāngia ana te tangata e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ko wai atu te hunga i pāngia pea. He tāngata whaipānga ēnei. He Tangata Pānga ā-Kāinga koe mēnā e noho ana koe me tētahi tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. He Tangata Pānga ā-Kāinga: he noho tahi me tētahi tangata (i ngā wā katoa, i ētahi wā rānei) kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, 1 te pō, te rā rānei neke atu i noho i taua whare i te wā e hopuhopu ana te mate. Ahakoa kua werohia koe, kāore rānei, ko tāu me: noho taratahi mai i te rā i kitea kei te pāngia te tangata e te mate KOWHEORI-19, i whakamōhiotia atu rānei he kēhi pea ia kia mutu rā anō tō noho taratahi 7 rā me haere kia whakamātautauhia mō te KOWHEORI-19 i ngā rā tika o te wā noho taratahi, tōmua ake rānei mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate. Mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mā te hunga kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. kaua e pā ki te tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā tāngata pānga ā-kāinga Noho taratahi i te kāinga Ka aha mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia au e te mate? He Tangata Whaipānga Tata koe mēnā i pā koe ki tētahi tangata e pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e hopuhopu ana te mate i a ia. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi koe mēnā he Tangata Whaipānga Tata koe. Me tirotiro i a koe anō mō ngā tohumate, ā, ki te pā mai, me haere kia whakamātautauhia. Ngā tāngata whaipānga tata Mēnā kua kitea kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 me whakamōhio atu i hea koe, ā, i tūtaki koe ki a wai. Ka taea e koe tēnei te mahi kia haumaru mā tētahi puka whaiwhai i te pātanga. Ka mahia tēnei i tua atu i tētahi uiui waea. Mēnā he nama waea kawe whaimana tāu, ka whiwhi pātuhi koe me te hononga me te waehere whakauru, e oti ai tēnei puka. Mā te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 ka taea e koe te tuari: ō tohumate ngā taipitopito o ō pānga ā-kāinga ngā taipitopito o ngā wāhi nui te mōrea me ngā tāngata whaipānga tata ngā hiahia oranga. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer me te whakataki Hono Iarere, ka taea e koe te tuari tō rātaka matihiko me ō raraunga Hono Iarere. He tere ake te whakaoti i te puka i tētahi uiui — he tata ki te 30 meneti te roa. Mēnā kāore e tīmataria e koe te puka i roto i te 24 haora, ka waea atu he tangata ki a koe ki te whakaoti i te uiui kēhi i runga waea. Te whakamahi i te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga Kua kore te whakaritenga ki te matawai, kia whakaaturia rānei e tētahi pakihi te pānui waehere QR, te tiaki pūkete ā-ture rānei. Engari, ka taea e koe te whakamahi tonu te taupānga NZ Tracer kia mau ai he whakaaturanga o ō haerenga, te whiwhi rānei i ngā pānui Hono Iarere. Mēnā i pātata koe ki tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi pānui karaka ki tō taupānga NZ COVID Tracer. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi pānui, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu kei te pānui. He kirimuna ngā pānui Hono Iarere. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi pānui, kāore koe e mōhio nā wai i tuku te pānui ki a koe, i hea koe e pā ana ki te tangata mate. Mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, kei a koe te tikanga ki te tukuatu i ō raraunga Hono Iarere ki te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā ka pāngia te tangata e te KOWHEORI-19, me kimi mātau i te hunga i whai pānga pea ki te mate. Koinei te whaiwhai i te pātanga. Ka āwhina te whaiwhai i te pātanga i hea e pāngia ana te tangata e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ko wai atu te hunga i pāngia pea. He tāngata whaipānga ēnei. He Tangata Pānga ā-Kāinga koe mēnā e noho ana koe me tētahi tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. He Tangata Pānga ā-Kāinga: he noho tahi me tētahi tangata (i ngā wā katoa, i ētahi wā rānei) kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, 1 te pō, te rā rānei neke atu i noho i taua whare i te wā e hopuhopu ana te mate. Ahakoa kua werohia koe, kāore rānei, ko tāu me: noho taratahi mai i te rā i kitea kei te pāngia te tangata e te mate KOWHEORI-19, i whakamōhiotia atu rānei he kēhi pea ia kia mutu rā anō tō noho taratahi 7 rā me haere kia whakamātautauhia mō te KOWHEORI-19 i ngā rā tika o te wā noho taratahi, tōmua ake rānei mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate. Mēnā ka pāngia koe e te mate, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mā te hunga kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. kaua e pā ki te tangata kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā tāngata pānga ā-kāinga Noho taratahi i te kāinga Ka aha mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia au e te mate? He Tangata Whaipānga Tata koe mēnā i pā koe ki tētahi tangata e pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e hopuhopu ana te mate i a ia. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi koe mēnā he Tangata Whaipānga Tata koe. Me tirotiro i a koe anō mō ngā tohumate, ā, ki te pā mai, me haere kia whakamātautauhia. Ngā tāngata whaipānga tata Mēnā kua kitea kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 me whakamōhio atu i hea koe, ā, i tūtaki koe ki a wai. Ka taea e koe tēnei te mahi kia haumaru mā tētahi puka whaiwhai i te pātanga. Ka mahia tēnei i tua atu i tētahi uiui waea. Mēnā he nama waea kawe whaimana tāu, ka whiwhi pātuhi koe me te hononga me te waehere whakauru, e oti ai tēnei puka. Mā te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 ka taea e koe te tuari: ō tohumate ngā taipitopito o ō pānga ā-kāinga ngā taipitopito o ngā wāhi nui te mōrea me ngā tāngata whaipānga tata ngā hiahia oranga. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer me te whakataki Hono Iarere, ka taea e koe te tuari tō rātaka matihiko me ō raraunga Hono Iarere. He tere ake te whakaoti i te puka i tētahi uiui — he tata ki te 30 meneti te roa. Mēnā kāore e tīmataria e koe te puka i roto i te 24 haora, ka waea atu he tangata ki a koe ki te whakaoti i te uiui kēhi i runga waea. Te whakamahi i te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga Kua kore te whakaritenga ki te matawai, kia whakaaturia rānei e tētahi pakihi te pānui waehere QR, te tiaki pūkete ā-ture rānei. Engari, ka taea e koe te whakamahi tonu te taupānga NZ Tracer kia mau ai he whakaaturanga o ō haerenga, te whiwhi rānei i ngā pānui Hono Iarere. Mēnā i pātata koe ki tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi pānui karaka ki tō taupānga NZ COVID Tracer. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi pānui, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu kei te pānui. He kirimuna ngā pānui Hono Iarere. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi pānui, kāore koe e mōhio nā wai i tuku te pānui ki a koe, i hea koe e pā ana ki te tangata mate. Mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, kei a koe te tikanga ki te tukuatu i ō raraunga Hono Iarere ki te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Me pēhea te whakamahi i te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 | How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form --- Section Separator --- Mā te tuari i ngā taipitopito mō ngā wāhi i haere koe kia tere ai te tautuhi i ngā wāhi tino mōrea me whiwhi tautoko pea hei tiaki i te hunga e tino mōrea ana i tō tātau hapori. Mā te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 ka taea e koe te tuari: Ngā taipitopito whakapā me te hauora Ngā tohumate Ngā tāngata pānga ā-kāinga Ngā wāhi tino mōrea Te rātaka COVID Tracer me ngā raraunga Hono Iarere Ina kitea kei te pāngia koe e tētahi whakamātautau PCR kei te mate koe, kua tukuna atu rānei e koe tō otinga RAT e whakaatu ana kua pāngia koe, ka tukuna he hono ki a koe me te uru ki te waehere mā te patowaea mai i te tau 2328 hei whakakī i tēnei puka. He tata ki te 30 meneti te roa mō te whakakī i tēnei puka. Mēnā kei te raru tō whakakī i tēnei puka, īmēra atu ki help@tracingform.min.health.nz waea atu rānei ki 0800 555 728 . He haumaru te rokiroki a Te Manatū Hauora i ēnei mōhiohio. Ka whakamahia anake mō te whaiwhai i te pātanga me te tautuhi i ngā tautoko hauora tāpiri ka hiahia pea koe. Ka tuarihia anake ngā mōhiohio ki ngā tari kei te āwhina me ēnei mahi. Pānuitia te tauākī tūmataitinga (external link) o te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19. Ina tīmataria e koe tēnei tukanga, me whakaoti e koe tēnei puka i te nōhanga kotahi mā te pūrere kotahi me te pūtirotiro kia kore ai e ngaro ngā raraunga kua tāurua kētia. Tāurua tō waehere urunga ka manatoko i tō tuakiri mā tō rā whānau. Tīpako ‘Get started’ (Te tīmata). Pānuitia ka pēhea te whakamahia i ngā mōhiohio ka tukuna e koe. Tohua te pouaka ka tīpako ‘Accept and continue’ (Whakaae ka haere tonu). Me whakarato ngā taipitopito whakapā kē, tae atu ki te wāhitau e noho taratahi ana koe. Me tuku i ngā taipitopito mō ō mate hauora taketake. Me kōrero ko ēhea ngā tohumate i pā mai me te wā i tīmata. Mēnā kāore anō kia pā mai ngā tohumate, me whakaū i tēnei, ā, ka whakamahia e mātau tō rā whakamātautau hei whakatau i tō wā hopuhopu mate. Me tuku mai ngā taipitopito o ō tāngata pānga ā-kāinga, tae atu ki te hunga kāore i te pūmau tō noho tahi, engari i noho koe mō tētahi wā o tō wā hopuhopu mate. Me whakaatu mēnā kua tae koe ki tētahi o ngā wāhi tino mōrea i te wā e hopuhopu ana tō mate. Mō ia rā e hopuhopu ana tō mate, ka pātaitia koe mēnā kua tae koe ki tētahi o ngā wāhi tino mōrea. Me whakamōhio atu koe ki ō tāngata whaipānga tata me tō wāhi mahi/mātauranga kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Ko ēnei tāngata i whai wāhi atu koe i te wā e hopuhopu ana tō mate me te kore mau ārai kanohi. Me tirotiro haere rātau mō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 mō te 10 rā me te haere kia whakamātautauhia mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate. Me tirotiro anō me te tuku i ngā mōhiohio kua tukuna e koe. Ka whakapā atu pea ki a koe mō ētahi atu taipitopito anō. Tuarihia ngā taipitopito mai i tō rātaka COVID Tracer. He rite tonu te waehere tukuatu rātaka i whakamahia e koe hei uru atu ki te Puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 kei te SMS i whiwhi koe. Mēnā kei te hiahia āwhina koe kia noho taratahi koe, ka tukuna atu e mātou he hono ki a koe hei tono mō tēnei mai i Te Hiranga Tangata (MSD). Tīpako ‘Yes’ (Āe), ‘No’ (Kāo) rānei. --- Section Separator --- Mā te tuari i ngā taipitopito mō ngā wāhi i haere koe kia tere ai te tautuhi i ngā wāhi tino mōrea me whiwhi tautoko pea hei tiaki i te hunga e tino mōrea ana i tō tātau hapori. Mā te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 ka taea e koe te tuari: Ngā taipitopito whakapā me te hauora Ngā tohumate Ngā tāngata pānga ā-kāinga Ngā wāhi tino mōrea Te rātaka COVID Tracer me ngā raraunga Hono Iarere Ina kitea kei te pāngia koe e tētahi whakamātautau PCR kei te mate koe, kua tukuna atu rānei e koe tō otinga RAT e whakaatu ana kua pāngia koe, ka tukuna he hono ki a koe me te uru ki te waehere mā te patowaea mai i te tau 2328 hei whakakī i tēnei puka. He tata ki te 30 meneti te roa mō te whakakī i tēnei puka. Mēnā kei te raru tō whakakī i tēnei puka, īmēra atu ki help@tracingform.min.health.nz waea atu rānei ki 0800 555 728 . He haumaru te rokiroki a Te Manatū Hauora i ēnei mōhiohio. Ka whakamahia anake mō te whaiwhai i te pātanga me te tautuhi i ngā tautoko hauora tāpiri ka hiahia pea koe. Ka tuarihia anake ngā mōhiohio ki ngā tari kei te āwhina me ēnei mahi. Pānuitia te tauākī tūmataitinga (external link) o te puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19. Ina tīmataria e koe tēnei tukanga, me whakaoti e koe tēnei puka i te nōhanga kotahi mā te pūrere kotahi me te pūtirotiro kia kore ai e ngaro ngā raraunga kua tāurua kētia. Tāurua tō waehere urunga ka manatoko i tō tuakiri mā tō rā whānau. Tīpako ‘Get started’ (Te tīmata). Pānuitia ka pēhea te whakamahia i ngā mōhiohio ka tukuna e koe. Tohua te pouaka ka tīpako ‘Accept and continue’ (Whakaae ka haere tonu). Me whakarato ngā taipitopito whakapā kē, tae atu ki te wāhitau e noho taratahi ana koe. Me tuku i ngā taipitopito mō ō mate hauora taketake. Me kōrero ko ēhea ngā tohumate i pā mai me te wā i tīmata. Mēnā kāore anō kia pā mai ngā tohumate, me whakaū i tēnei, ā, ka whakamahia e mātau tō rā whakamātautau hei whakatau i tō wā hopuhopu mate. Me tuku mai ngā taipitopito o ō tāngata pānga ā-kāinga, tae atu ki te hunga kāore i te pūmau tō noho tahi, engari i noho koe mō tētahi wā o tō wā hopuhopu mate. Me whakaatu mēnā kua tae koe ki tētahi o ngā wāhi tino mōrea i te wā e hopuhopu ana tō mate. Mō ia rā e hopuhopu ana tō mate, ka pātaitia koe mēnā kua tae koe ki tētahi o ngā wāhi tino mōrea. Me whakamōhio atu koe ki ō tāngata whaipānga tata me tō wāhi mahi/mātauranga kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Ko ēnei tāngata i whai wāhi atu koe i te wā e hopuhopu ana tō mate me te kore mau ārai kanohi. Me tirotiro haere rātau mō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 mō te 10 rā me te haere kia whakamātautauhia mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate. Me tirotiro anō me te tuku i ngā mōhiohio kua tukuna e koe. Ka whakapā atu pea ki a koe mō ētahi atu taipitopito anō. Tuarihia ngā taipitopito mai i tō rātaka COVID Tracer. He rite tonu te waehere tukuatu rātaka i whakamahia e koe hei uru atu ki te Puka whaiwhai i te pātanga KOWHEORI-19 kei te SMS i whiwhi koe. Mēnā kei te hiahia āwhina koe kia noho taratahi koe, ka tukuna atu e mātou he hono ki a koe hei tono mō tēnei mai i Te Hiranga Tangata (MSD). Tīpako ‘Yes’ (Āe), ‘No’ (Kāo) rānei. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te rapu whakamātautau, ngā momo whakamātautau e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa, ā, me ngā wāhi e taea ana he whakamātautau. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Tērā pea me whiwhi koe i tētahi whakamātautau mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei, mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi tangata e pāngia ana, mēnā e hāereere ana koe, mēnā rānei e herea ana koe e tō tūranga mahi kia whakamātauria. Ngā āhuatanga mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka uru ki tēnei te whiwhi i ō hua, te whaiwhai pānga, me aha koe, ā, me te tautoko ka whiwhi koe. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te rapu whakamātautau, ngā momo whakamātautau e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa, ā, me ngā wāhi e taea ana he whakamātautau. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Tērā pea me whiwhi koe i tētahi whakamātautau mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei, mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi tangata e pāngia ana, mēnā e hāereere ana koe, mēnā rānei e herea ana koe e tō tūranga mahi kia whakamātauria. Ngā āhuatanga mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka uru ki tēnei te whiwhi i ō hua, te whaiwhai pānga, me aha koe, ā, me te tautoko ka whiwhi koe.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing Te aromatawai KOWHEORI-19 | COVID-19 testing --- Section Separator --- Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] Ko te tikanga, he kore utu ngā whakamātautau mā te katoa — ehara i te mea me kirirarau koe o Aotearoa, kainoho rānei, ā, e kore koe e utu mō ngā whakamaimoatanga ina pāngia koe e te mate. Ka mate pea koe ki te utu mō te whakamātautau ki te kuhu ki tētahi atu whenua, mō ngā take whakamātautau tūtei e te rāngai pakihi, otirā kei waho tēnei i ngā here o te ture. Te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, mō te hāereere i te ao Ko ētahi take o te whiwhi whakamātautau mēnā: e āhua māuiui ana he pānga koe nō tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 e haere ana koe i te motu, otirā ka hiahia te kaiwhakahaere kawenga i tētahi whakamātautau huakore e haere ana koe ki tāwāhi (kei te āhua tēnā o te whenua e haere ai koe) e kuhu ana koe ki Aotearoa e haere ana ki tētahi kōti, ā, kāore he tohumate, engari kāore hoki he kano ārai mate e hiahiatia ana kia pai ai te haere ki te mahi Ina whakaaro koe me whiwhi whakamātautau, waea atu a Healthline i 0800 358 5453 Rapu kōrero hei āwhea whiwhi whakamātautau ai Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i tētahi Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment) kia taea tonu te utu i a koe. Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (external link) I Aotearoa e toru ngā momo whakamātautau mō te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19: PCR, Hūware me te Ākipaturopi tere. Ko te PCR (nasopharyngeal rānei) ngā whakamātautau tika rawa, ā, ka taea i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori, ngā hōhipera me ngā pokapū hauora. Kei waenga i te 2-5 rā te roa. He pani ki te wāhanga whakamuri o te ihu me te korokoro. He āhua rite te rākau pani ki tētahi miro pūkohu iti engari he roa ake te rākau. E wātea ana ēnei whakamātautau ki ngā kaimahi rohenga whenua. Ka taea te kohi ā-whaiaro i ngā tīpakohanga hūware me te whakataka atu ki tētahi wāhi kohinga, ka taea rānei te mahi i mua i tētahi kaimahi hauora. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. He nui ake te whakamahia o ēnei i te wā e nui ana ngā pānga. --- Section Separator --- Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] --- Section Separator --- Ko te tikanga, he kore utu ngā whakamātautau mā te katoa — ehara i te mea me kirirarau koe o Aotearoa, kainoho rānei, ā, e kore koe e utu mō ngā whakamaimoatanga ina pāngia koe e te mate. Ka mate pea koe ki te utu mō te whakamātautau ki te kuhu ki tētahi atu whenua, mō ngā take whakamātautau tūtei e te rāngai pakihi, otirā kei waho tēnei i ngā here o te ture. Te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, mō te hāereere i te ao Ko ētahi take o te whiwhi whakamātautau mēnā: e āhua māuiui ana he pānga koe nō tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 e haere ana koe i te motu, otirā ka hiahia te kaiwhakahaere kawenga i tētahi whakamātautau huakore e haere ana koe ki tāwāhi (kei te āhua tēnā o te whenua e haere ai koe) e kuhu ana koe ki Aotearoa e haere ana ki tētahi kōti, ā, kāore he tohumate, engari kāore hoki he kano ārai mate e hiahiatia ana kia pai ai te haere ki te mahi Ina whakaaro koe me whiwhi whakamātautau, waea atu a Healthline i 0800 358 5453 Rapu kōrero hei āwhea whiwhi whakamātautau ai Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i tētahi Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment) kia taea tonu te utu i a koe. Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (external link) I Aotearoa e toru ngā momo whakamātautau mō te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19: PCR, Hūware me te Ākipaturopi tere. Ko te PCR (nasopharyngeal rānei) ngā whakamātautau tika rawa, ā, ka taea i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori, ngā hōhipera me ngā pokapū hauora. Kei waenga i te 2-5 rā te roa. He pani ki te wāhanga whakamuri o te ihu me te korokoro. He āhua rite te rākau pani ki tētahi miro pūkohu iti engari he roa ake te rākau. E wātea ana ēnei whakamātautau ki ngā kaimahi rohenga whenua. Ka taea te kohi ā-whaiaro i ngā tīpakohanga hūware me te whakataka atu ki tētahi wāhi kohinga, ka taea rānei te mahi i mua i tētahi kaimahi hauora. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. He nui ake te whakamahia o ēnei i te wā e nui ana ngā pānga. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | Rapid Antigen Tests Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. --- Section Separator --- E wātea ana ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere ki te iwi whānui mō te koreutu mēnā ka pupū ake he tohumate, he pānga rānei nō tētahi pānga ā-kāinga. Māu tonu e whakahaere i ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere, mā tētahi atu rānei. Me pūrongo i ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere (RAT) mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe, kāore rānei. Ka taea tēnei mā te ipurangi mā My Covid Record, mā te waea rānei i te waea āwhina. --- Section Separator --- E wātea ana ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere ki te iwi whānui mō te koreutu mēnā ka pupū ake he tohumate, he pānga rānei nō tētahi pānga ā-kāinga. Māu tonu e whakahaere i ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere, mā tētahi atu rānei. Me pūrongo i ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere (RAT) mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe, kāore rānei. Ka taea tēnei mā te ipurangi mā My Covid Record, mā te waea rānei i te waea āwhina.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | Rapid Antigen Tests Me pēhea te rapu Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | How to get a Rapid Antigen Test --- Section Separator --- He koreutu ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere ki ngā pānga ā-kāinga me te hunga whai tohumate KOWHEORI-19. E rua ngā huarahi mō te tono Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere: I runga i te pae tukutuku ‘Tono i tētahi Whakamātautau Kowheori-19’: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Mā te waea ki 0800 222 478 me te tīpako i te kōwhiringa 3 E tono ai koe mā te pae tukutuku, me āhei koe ki tētahi waea kawe hei whakaū i te tono. Ka taea te tono RAT mā tētahi atu. Me mahi māmā noa te tono RAT i te pae tukutuku, me whai noa i ngā tohutohu: Haere ki requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) . Ka pātai te paetukutuku mēnā he kino ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e tika ana tērā, me hohoro te waea ki 111, ina koe, me pāwhiri i te ‘kāore i a au ēnei tohumate’. Tīpakohia te ‘Tīmata ināianei’. Tāurua tō nama waea kawe ki te āputa, ka pāwhiri i te ‘Haere tonu’. Ka tukua tētahi waehere hāpono e 6-mati ki tō waea kawe. Tāurua tēnei waehere ina whiwhi i a koe, ka pāwhiri i te ‘Haere tonu’. Pānuitia te ‘Tauākī Tūmataitinga Puka Tono RAT’ ka tohu i te pouaka ki te whakaū i tō pānuitanga. Kātahi ka pāwhiri i te ‘Whakaae ka Haere Tonu’. Tīpakohia mēnā kei te whakaoti koe i tēnei puka mōu tonu, mō tētahi atu rānei, ka pēhi i te ‘Panuku’. Ka pātaitia ētahi pātai, me pono tō whakautu, ā, ka pāwhiri i te ‘Panuku’ i muri i ia pātai. Mēnā e māraurau ana koe, ka tonoa koe ki te tāuru i ō taipitopito, tae atu ki tō ingoa, wāhi noho, rā whānau me te maha o ngā tāngata kei tō kāinga. Kia oti i a koe tēnei, pāwhiri i te ‘Tukua tō tono’. Kātahi ka tukua tētahi waehere tono RAT. Kātahi ka āhei koe ki te kohi i tō tono RAT i tētahi wāhi e rārangi mai ana i Healthpoint (external link) , mā tētahi atu rānei e kohi. Mēnā kāore ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ā, ehara i te pānga ā-kāinga, engari e hiahia ana koe i tētahi whakamātau, i mua i tō tūtakitaki ki ō hoa, whānau rānei, ka taea e te hoko i tētahi RAT i ngā kaihoko. I tīkina aua whakamātautau i te mākete tūmataiti. Me whakaae rawa Te Manatū Hauora ki ēnei whakamātautau e taea ai te hoko atu. --- Section Separator --- He koreutu ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere ki ngā pānga ā-kāinga me te hunga whai tohumate KOWHEORI-19. E rua ngā huarahi mō te tono Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere: I runga i te pae tukutuku ‘Tono i tētahi Whakamātautau Kowheori-19’: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Mā te waea ki 0800 222 478 me te tīpako i te kōwhiringa 3 E tono ai koe mā te pae tukutuku, me āhei koe ki tētahi waea kawe hei whakaū i te tono. Ka taea te tono RAT mā tētahi atu. Me mahi māmā noa te tono RAT i te pae tukutuku, me whai noa i ngā tohutohu: Haere ki requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) . Ka pātai te paetukutuku mēnā he kino ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e tika ana tērā, me hohoro te waea ki 111, ina koe, me pāwhiri i te ‘kāore i a au ēnei tohumate’. Tīpakohia te ‘Tīmata ināianei’. Tāurua tō nama waea kawe ki te āputa, ka pāwhiri i te ‘Haere tonu’. Ka tukua tētahi waehere hāpono e 6-mati ki tō waea kawe. Tāurua tēnei waehere ina whiwhi i a koe, ka pāwhiri i te ‘Haere tonu’. Pānuitia te ‘Tauākī Tūmataitinga Puka Tono RAT’ ka tohu i te pouaka ki te whakaū i tō pānuitanga. Kātahi ka pāwhiri i te ‘Whakaae ka Haere Tonu’. Tīpakohia mēnā kei te whakaoti koe i tēnei puka mōu tonu, mō tētahi atu rānei, ka pēhi i te ‘Panuku’. Ka pātaitia ētahi pātai, me pono tō whakautu, ā, ka pāwhiri i te ‘Panuku’ i muri i ia pātai. Mēnā e māraurau ana koe, ka tonoa koe ki te tāuru i ō taipitopito, tae atu ki tō ingoa, wāhi noho, rā whānau me te maha o ngā tāngata kei tō kāinga. Kia oti i a koe tēnei, pāwhiri i te ‘Tukua tō tono’. Kātahi ka tukua tētahi waehere tono RAT. Kātahi ka āhei koe ki te kohi i tō tono RAT i tētahi wāhi e rārangi mai ana i Healthpoint (external link) , mā tētahi atu rānei e kohi. Mēnā kāore ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ā, ehara i te pānga ā-kāinga, engari e hiahia ana koe i tētahi whakamātau, i mua i tō tūtakitaki ki ō hoa, whānau rānei, ka taea e te hoko i tētahi RAT i ngā kaihoko. I tīkina aua whakamātautau i te mākete tūmataiti. Me whakaae rawa Te Manatū Hauora ki ēnei whakamātautau e taea ai te hoko atu. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | Rapid Antigen Tests Me pēhea te pūrongo i ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results --- Section Separator --- E taea ana e te hunga katoa o Aotearoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, te hono ake ki My Covid Record. I te tuatahi me whakarite i tētahi My Health Account, mā tēnei e uru ai koe ki ō pūkete KOWHEORI-19 ā-tuihono. Me whiwhi koe i tāu ake wāhitau īmēra ki te whakarite i tētahi pūkete. My Covid Record Kia whiwhi koe i tētahi pūkete, ka taea e koe te tuku ake i ō hua: Takiuru ki My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) I raro i te ‘Self-report a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT)’, patongia, pāwhiritia rānei te ‘Report a test result’. Pānuitia ngā mōhiohio kua whakaratoa. Patongia, pāwhiritia rānei te ‘Haere tonu’. Patongia, pāwhiritia rānei a ‘Myself’, tāurua tō nama waea kawe, ka tohu hoki i te pouaka ki te whakaae koe ki te whiwhi mōhiohio KOWHEORI-19. Patongia, pāwhiritia rānei te ‘Haere tonu’. Ka taea hoki e koe te pūrongo i te hua RAT mā tētahi atu, me whiwhi koe i tōna ingoa katoa, te rā whānau me te tau NHI. Tohua ko ēhea ngā raina e kitea ana i tō whakamātautau mā te tīpako i te ‘Āe’, ‘Kāo’ rānei. Patongia, pāwhiritia rānei te ‘Enter result’. Whakaūngia tō hiahia ki te hopu i tō hua ki tō pūkete hauora ōkawa mā te pāwhiri i te ‘Yes, enter result’. Ka kitea ake he tohutohu me aha koe ināianei. Mēnā e pūrongo ana koe i ōu ake hua, ā, i hē tō tāuru i te hua, he 20 mineti te wā ki a koe ki te tango ake. Ataata: Me pēhea te pūrongo i te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) (external link) Mēnā kei te hiahia āwhina koe me My Covid Record, whakapā atu ki tira a Te Manatū Hauora, 8am ki te 8pm, e 7 rā i te wiki. He pai tonu kia whakaritea e koe tō tau NHI. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 Ka taea e koe te pūrongo i ngā hua o tō RAT mā te waea, ina hiahia rānei ki te pūrongo i ngā hua RAT a tētahi atu, ā, kāore i a koe tāna tau NHI, mā te waea ki 0800 222 478 me te kōwhiri i te whiringa 3. --- Section Separator --- E taea ana e te hunga katoa o Aotearoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, te hono ake ki My Covid Record. I te tuatahi me whakarite i tētahi My Health Account, mā tēnei e uru ai koe ki ō pūkete KOWHEORI-19 ā-tuihono. Me whiwhi koe i tāu ake wāhitau īmēra ki te whakarite i tētahi pūkete. My Covid Record Kia whiwhi koe i tētahi pūkete, ka taea e koe te tuku ake i ō hua: Takiuru ki My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) I raro i te ‘Self-report a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT)’, patongia, pāwhiritia rānei te ‘Report a test result’. Pānuitia ngā mōhiohio kua whakaratoa. Patongia, pāwhiritia rānei te ‘Haere tonu’. Patongia, pāwhiritia rānei a ‘Myself’, tāurua tō nama waea kawe, ka tohu hoki i te pouaka ki te whakaae koe ki te whiwhi mōhiohio KOWHEORI-19. Patongia, pāwhiritia rānei te ‘Haere tonu’. Ka taea hoki e koe te pūrongo i te hua RAT mā tētahi atu, me whiwhi koe i tōna ingoa katoa, te rā whānau me te tau NHI. Tohua ko ēhea ngā raina e kitea ana i tō whakamātautau mā te tīpako i te ‘Āe’, ‘Kāo’ rānei. Patongia, pāwhiritia rānei te ‘Enter result’. Whakaūngia tō hiahia ki te hopu i tō hua ki tō pūkete hauora ōkawa mā te pāwhiri i te ‘Yes, enter result’. Ka kitea ake he tohutohu me aha koe ināianei. Mēnā e pūrongo ana koe i ōu ake hua, ā, i hē tō tāuru i te hua, he 20 mineti te wā ki a koe ki te tango ake. Ataata: Me pēhea te pūrongo i te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) (external link) Mēnā kei te hiahia āwhina koe me My Covid Record, whakapā atu ki tira a Te Manatū Hauora, 8am ki te 8pm, e 7 rā i te wiki. He pai tonu kia whakaritea e koe tō tau NHI. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 Ka taea e koe te pūrongo i ngā hua o tō RAT mā te waea, ina hiahia rānei ki te pūrongo i ngā hua RAT a tētahi atu, ā, kāore i a koe tāna tau NHI, mā te waea ki 0800 222 478 me te kōwhiri i te whiringa 3. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | Rapid Antigen Tests Me pēhea te whakamahi i te Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | How to use a Rapid Antigen Test --- Section Separator --- Me pēhea te whakamahi i te Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [PDF, 559 KB] Ka rerekē te āhua o ngā tohutohu whakamātautau i runga anō i te āhua o te momo. Whāia ai e ngā kete whakamātautau ākipaturopi ngā tohutohu i raro nei, engari kaua te katoa. Tēnā whāia ngā tohutohu a te kaihanga . Wātea ai ngā hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere i te 20 mineti. Tangohia he pani ihu i te pūkoro. Kuhuna te rākau pani ki tētahi pongāihu, kia 2-3cm mai i te taha o te pongāihu. Āta hurihuritia te pani kia rima ngā wā i te mata o te pongāihu. Mā taua rākau pani tonu, tōaitia te tukanga kohi i tētahi atu pongāihu. Tirohia ngā tohutohu o te pouaka ki te whakaū i te angawā tika hei pānui i tō hua. Ka rerekē pea tēnei i runga i te āhua o te momo kete. Tīhorea te hīri konumohe i runga i te ipuriki waiwāhi, e mau nei te waiwāhi pūtau. Purua te pani ki roto i te ipuriki waiwāhi. Kia kaha tonu te hurihuri i te pani kia rima ngā wā. Tangohia te pani mā te huri i te pani ki te taha o te ipuriki, i te wā e kōtē ana i ngā tahataha e tuku ai te wē i te kōwiri. Katia te ipuriki mā te taupoki, ā, kia kaha tonu te whakamau ki runga i te ipuriki. Kia kaha tonu te kōrori mā te perepere i te wāhanga o raro o te ipu. Huri kōarotia te ipuriki, ka pupuri i te tīpakohanga ki runga ake o te poka tīpakohanga. Āta kōtēhia te ipuriki. Tukua ngā pata e tika ana ki tā ngā tohutohu o te kete, kia heke ki roto i te poka tīpakohanga. Tēnā tirohia ngā tohutohu o te kete, ka whai i te wā e tika ana ki te tiro i tō hua whakamātautau. E tohu ana tētahi rārangi i te taha o te C, kāore he mate Ina whiwhi koe i te hua whakamātautau kāore he mate, ā, kāore ō tohumate, kua mutu te wāhanga ki a koe. E tohu ana ngā rārangi e rua, i te taha o te C me te T, e pāngia ana koe e te mate. Mēnā kāore he rārangi i te taha o te C, e tohu ana tērā he muhu te whakamātautau. Mēnā he muhu tētahi hua, me whakamātau anō. Me pūrongo koe i tō hua. Ka taea tēnei i runga i My Covid Record. Takiuru ki mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) waea atu rānei ki 0800 222 478 ka pēhi i te kōwhiringa 3. Mēnā kei roto koe i tētahi kaupapa Close Contact Exemption Scheme, me whakamōhio koe i tō kaituku mahi ki tō hua. --- Section Separator --- Me pēhea te whakamahi i te Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [PDF, 559 KB] --- Section Separator --- Ka rerekē te āhua o ngā tohutohu whakamātautau i runga anō i te āhua o te momo. Whāia ai e ngā kete whakamātautau ākipaturopi ngā tohutohu i raro nei, engari kaua te katoa. Tēnā whāia ngā tohutohu a te kaihanga . Wātea ai ngā hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere i te 20 mineti. Tangohia he pani ihu i te pūkoro. Kuhuna te rākau pani ki tētahi pongāihu, kia 2-3cm mai i te taha o te pongāihu. Āta hurihuritia te pani kia rima ngā wā i te mata o te pongāihu. Mā taua rākau pani tonu, tōaitia te tukanga kohi i tētahi atu pongāihu. Tirohia ngā tohutohu o te pouaka ki te whakaū i te angawā tika hei pānui i tō hua. Ka rerekē pea tēnei i runga i te āhua o te momo kete. Tīhorea te hīri konumohe i runga i te ipuriki waiwāhi, e mau nei te waiwāhi pūtau. Purua te pani ki roto i te ipuriki waiwāhi. Kia kaha tonu te hurihuri i te pani kia rima ngā wā. Tangohia te pani mā te huri i te pani ki te taha o te ipuriki, i te wā e kōtē ana i ngā tahataha e tuku ai te wē i te kōwiri. Katia te ipuriki mā te taupoki, ā, kia kaha tonu te whakamau ki runga i te ipuriki. Kia kaha tonu te kōrori mā te perepere i te wāhanga o raro o te ipu. Huri kōarotia te ipuriki, ka pupuri i te tīpakohanga ki runga ake o te poka tīpakohanga. Āta kōtēhia te ipuriki. Tukua ngā pata e tika ana ki tā ngā tohutohu o te kete, kia heke ki roto i te poka tīpakohanga. Tēnā tirohia ngā tohutohu o te kete, ka whai i te wā e tika ana ki te tiro i tō hua whakamātautau. E tohu ana tētahi rārangi i te taha o te C, kāore he mate Ina whiwhi koe i te hua whakamātautau kāore he mate, ā, kāore ō tohumate, kua mutu te wāhanga ki a koe. E tohu ana ngā rārangi e rua, i te taha o te C me te T, e pāngia ana koe e te mate. Mēnā kāore he rārangi i te taha o te C, e tohu ana tērā he muhu te whakamātautau. Mēnā he muhu tētahi hua, me whakamātau anō. Me pūrongo koe i tō hua. Ka taea tēnei i runga i My Covid Record. Takiuru ki mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) waea atu rānei ki 0800 222 478 ka pēhi i te kōwhiringa 3. Mēnā kei roto koe i tētahi kaupapa Close Contact Exemption Scheme, me whakamōhio koe i tō kaituku mahi ki tō hua. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19, i te wā e tuku ana i ngā herekoretanga nui ake ki te hunga whai tohu ārai mate. --- Section Separator --- He whakamahi i tētahi aronga 3 taumata hei whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori: Kākāriki – ka whakamahia ina iti noa te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori, ka taea te whakahaere te hunga kei rō hōhipera, ka taea e te pūnaha hauora te urupare. Karaka – ka whakamahia ina piki haere ana te rere ā-hapori o te KOWHEORI-19, e whakapaua ana ngā rawa a te pūnaha haora katoa ki te whakahaere i te urutā, kei te piki haere te mōrea ki te iwi whānui. Whero – e whakamahia ana ina hiahiatia ana kia whakamarutia te pūnaha hauora me te whakamaru i ngā taupori noho mōrea. I ngā taumata katoa, ka noho tuwhera te nuinga o ngā pakihi, ngā toa hokohoko me ngā whakanōhanga tūmatanui ki te hunga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko ngā pakihi ka tuwhera anake ki ngā kiritaki whiwhi kano ārai mate he iti iho te mōrea. --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Te ora i te Karaka | Life at Orange --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, tērā ētahi herenga hei tiaki i ō tātou hapori. Ka taea tonu e koe ngā mahi o ia rā, pēnei i: Te tūtakitaki ki ō hoa me te whānau Te haere ki ngā kaupapa me ngā huihuinga Te haere ki te hoko taputapu me te kai Te haere ki ngā wāhi manaaki Te haere ki ngā whare hauora Te haere ki ngā whare ako kōhungahunga, ngā kura me te whare wānanga Te hāereere Te hūnuku ki tētahi whare hou Kāore he tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i rō whare, i waho hoki i te Karaka. Ko te mau maruhā tonu tētahi āhuatanga matua i te Karaka. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tautuhinga Karaka i te reo Ingarihi Ko te tikanga pai, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare. Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: i runga waka rererangi rāroto i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā tēkehi me ngā waka kawe-tiri i roto i nga pakihi hokohoko, hei tauira ngā hokomaha, ngā mōro, ngā kēmehi, ngā whare hinu me ngā whare ō rangaranga i roto i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, hei tauira, ngā whare taonga me ngā whare pukapuka, engari kaua i ngā whare kaukau i ngā whare whakaora kararehe i ngā wāhi tūmatanui o ngā kōti, ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori me ngā Whare Pirihimana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā ratonga tiaki hauora, hei tauira, ngā whare tiaki kaumātua. Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: i ngā wāhi manaaki i ngā pakihi tūtata ki te tangata, hei tauira, mēnā he kaikuti makawe koe i tētahi kaupapa (kia mōhio mai, i ngā huihuinga, e herea ana anake ngā kaimahi ki te mau i ngā maruhā noa) Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata hauā, raruraru hauora rānei, te mau maruhā.E kore pea e mārama te kite atu i te take o te whakawāteatanga. Nō reira kia māhaki. Mēnā he whakawāteatanga tōu, kaua e māharahara ina pātai tētahi pakihi, kaimahi rānei ki a koe mēnā e taea ana e koe te mau maruhā. Ko tāna noa he whakarite i tō haumarutanga, me ō ētahi atu.Kāore i te tika kia pātai te pakihi, te kaimahi rānei ki a koe i te āhua o tō hauātanga, tō mate rānei. Engari, he tika ana kia tirohia e ia tō tohu whakawātea i te kore mau maruhā. Ka taea e koe te whakahaere, te haere rānei ki tētahi huihuinga i te Karaka, hei tauira, te tūtakitaki hoa, te whakahaere mārena, te haere ki te karakia. Kāore he tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i rō whare, i waho hoki i te Karaka. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā taiao manaaki, hokohoko, mātauranga me ngā wāhi mahi. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, kāore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Karaka. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi i te kāinga. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi rohe e rerekē ana ngā whakaritenga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e ngaro atu ana koe i te kāinga, me noho taratahi i taua wāhi e noho nā koe. Me whakarite koe i tētahi mahere ina tūpono noa tēnei āhuatanga. Māu tonu e utu i tō noho ki te noho taratahi i a koe e hāereere ana. E herea ana te mau maruhā i runga i ngā waka kawe tūmatanui katoa, i ngā ratonga waka tiri hoki, māna, ka taea e koe te noho i waho (hei tauira, te rahoraho o te kaipuke). Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Noho kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana Horoia ō ringa, whakamahia rānei te patuero Me mare, matihe rānei ki tō tuke Me auau te horoi, te patuero rānei ngā papa tiri Me whakapai ake i te kōhauhau Kia tawhiti tonu te tū i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tōu ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te tangata takitahi me ngā whānau --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, tērā ētahi herenga hei tiaki i ō tātou hapori. Ka taea tonu e koe ngā mahi o ia rā, pēnei i: Te tūtakitaki ki ō hoa me te whānau Te haere ki ngā kaupapa me ngā huihuinga Te haere ki te hoko taputapu me te kai Te haere ki ngā wāhi manaaki Te haere ki ngā whare hauora Te haere ki ngā whare ako kōhungahunga, ngā kura me te whare wānanga Te hāereere Te hūnuku ki tētahi whare hou Kāore he tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i rō whare, i waho hoki i te Karaka. Ko te mau maruhā tonu tētahi āhuatanga matua i te Karaka. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tautuhinga Karaka i te reo Ingarihi Ko te tikanga pai, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare. Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: i runga waka rererangi rāroto i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā tēkehi me ngā waka kawe-tiri i roto i nga pakihi hokohoko, hei tauira ngā hokomaha, ngā mōro, ngā kēmehi, ngā whare hinu me ngā whare ō rangaranga i roto i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, hei tauira, ngā whare taonga me ngā whare pukapuka, engari kaua i ngā whare kaukau i ngā whare whakaora kararehe i ngā wāhi tūmatanui o ngā kōti, ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori me ngā Whare Pirihimana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā ratonga tiaki hauora, hei tauira, ngā whare tiaki kaumātua. Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: i ngā wāhi manaaki i ngā pakihi tūtata ki te tangata, hei tauira, mēnā he kaikuti makawe koe i tētahi kaupapa (kia mōhio mai, i ngā huihuinga, e herea ana anake ngā kaimahi ki te mau i ngā maruhā noa) Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata hauā, raruraru hauora rānei, te mau maruhā.E kore pea e mārama te kite atu i te take o te whakawāteatanga. Nō reira kia māhaki. Mēnā he whakawāteatanga tōu, kaua e māharahara ina pātai tētahi pakihi, kaimahi rānei ki a koe mēnā e taea ana e koe te mau maruhā. Ko tāna noa he whakarite i tō haumarutanga, me ō ētahi atu.Kāore i te tika kia pātai te pakihi, te kaimahi rānei ki a koe i te āhua o tō hauātanga, tō mate rānei. Engari, he tika ana kia tirohia e ia tō tohu whakawātea i te kore mau maruhā. Ka taea e koe te whakahaere, te haere rānei ki tētahi huihuinga i te Karaka, hei tauira, te tūtakitaki hoa, te whakahaere mārena, te haere ki te karakia. Kāore he tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i rō whare, i waho hoki i te Karaka. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā taiao manaaki, hokohoko, mātauranga me ngā wāhi mahi. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, kāore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Karaka. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi i te kāinga. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi rohe e rerekē ana ngā whakaritenga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e ngaro atu ana koe i te kāinga, me noho taratahi i taua wāhi e noho nā koe. Me whakarite koe i tētahi mahere ina tūpono noa tēnei āhuatanga. Māu tonu e utu i tō noho ki te noho taratahi i a koe e hāereere ana. E herea ana te mau maruhā i runga i ngā waka kawe tūmatanui katoa, i ngā ratonga waka tiri hoki, māna, ka taea e koe te noho i waho (hei tauira, te rahoraho o te kaipuke). Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Noho kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana Horoia ō ringa, whakamahia rānei te patuero Me mare, matihe rānei ki tō tuke Me auau te horoi, te patuero rānei ngā papa tiri Me whakapai ake i te kōhauhau Kia tawhiti tonu te tū i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tōu ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te tangata takitahi me ngā whānau --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Te ora i te Whero | Life at Red --- Section Separator --- I te Whero, tērā ētahi herenga hei tiaki i ō tātou hapori. Ka taea tonu e koe ngā mahi o ia rā, pēnei i: Te tūtakitaki ki ō hoa me te whānau Te haere ki ngā kaupapa me ngā huihuinga Te haere ki te hoko taputapu me te kai Te haere ki ngā wāhi manaaki Te haere ki ngā whare hauora Te haere ki ngā whare ako kōhungahunga, ngā kura me te whare wānanga Te hāereere Te hūnuku ki tētahi whare hou Tērā ētahi tepenga mō te maha o te tangata mō ētahi kaupapa kei rō whare. I pēnei ai nā te mea e mōhio ana mātou he tere hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 i rō whare. Ko te mau maruhā tonu tētahi āhuatanga matua i te Whero. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tautuhinga Whero i te reo Ingarihi Hei ture ahuwhānui, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare.Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: i runga waka rererangi rāroto i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi ūnga, wehe rānei o ngā rererangi ā-motu me ngā waka kawe tūmatanui mēnā kei rō whare. mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 8 tau, he tauira rānei kei te Tau 4, piki ake rānei, kei runga waka kawe tūmatanui, me ngā kawenga e utua ana e Te Tāhuhu o te Mātauranga i ngā tēkehi me ngā waka kawe-tiri i roto i nga pakihi hokohoko, hei tauira ngā hokomaha, ngā mōro, ngā kēmehi, ngā whare hinu me ngā whare ō rangaranga i roto i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, hei tauira, ngā whare taonga me ngā whare pukapuka, engari kaua i ngā whare kaukau i ngā whare whakaora kararehe i ngā taiao i rō whare i te kura, hei tauira, ngā akomanga me ngā huihuinga kura. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā manuhiri, ngā kaimahi, ngā ākonga me ngā kaiako i ngā Tau 4 ki te 13 i rō whare mātauranga matua ina haere ki tētahi kura kōhungahunga rēhita i ngā whare kai, whare inu hoki. Ka āhei koe ki te tango i tō maruhā ki te kai, te inu me te korikori tinana i ngā pākihi tūtata, hei tauira, ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā whare pani kanohi ina haere koe ki tētahi huihuinga i rō whare, hāunga i te wā nōu ake te kaupapa, ā, he motuhake. i ngā wāhi tūmatanui o ngā kōti, ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori me ngā Whare Pirihimana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā ratonga tiaki hauora, hei tauira, ngā whare tiaki kaumātua. Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: i ngā wāhi manaaki i ngā pakihi tūtata ki te tangata, hei tauira, mēnā he kaikuti makawe koe i roto i ngā whare whakapakari tinana i tētahi huihuinga ngā kaiako o ngā ākonga Tau 4 ki te 13. Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama e toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru.E kore pea e mārama te kite atu i te take o te whakawāteatanga. Nō reira kia māhaki. Mēnā he whakawāteatanga tōu, kaua e māharahara ina pātai tētahi pakihi, kaimahi rānei ki a koe mēnā e taea ana e koe te mau maruhā. Ko tāna noa he whakarite i tō haumarutanga, me ō ētahi atu.Kāore i te tika kia pātai te pakihi, te kaimahi rānei ki a koe i te āhua o tō hauātanga, tō mate rānei. Engari, he tika ana kia tirohia e ia tō tohu whakawātea i te kore mau maruhā. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, ka kore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Whero. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi i te kāinga. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi rohe e rerekē ana ngā whakaritenga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e ngaro atu ana koe i te kāinga, me noho taratahi i taua wāhi e noho nā koe. Me whakarite koe i tētahi mahere ina tūpono noa tēnei āhuatanga. Māu tonu e utu i tō noho ki te noho taratahi i a koe e hāereere ana. E herea ana te mau maruhā i runga i ngā waka kawe tūmatanui katoa, i ngā ratonga waka tiri hoki, māna, ka taea e koe te noho i waho (hei tauira, te rahoraho o te kaipuke). Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Noho kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana Horoia ō ringa, whakamahia rānei te patuero Maremare, matihe rānei ki tō tuke Me auau te horoi, te patuero rānei ngā papa tiri Me whakapai ake i te kōhauhau Kia tawhiti tonu te tū i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tō ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau --- Section Separator --- I te Whero, tērā ētahi herenga hei tiaki i ō tātou hapori. Ka taea tonu e koe ngā mahi o ia rā, pēnei i: Te tūtakitaki ki ō hoa me te whānau Te haere ki ngā kaupapa me ngā huihuinga Te haere ki te hoko taputapu me te kai Te haere ki ngā wāhi manaaki Te haere ki ngā whare hauora Te haere ki ngā whare ako kōhungahunga, ngā kura me te whare wānanga Te hāereere Te hūnuku ki tētahi whare hou Tērā ētahi tepenga mō te maha o te tangata mō ētahi kaupapa kei rō whare. I pēnei ai nā te mea e mōhio ana mātou he tere hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 i rō whare. Ko te mau maruhā tonu tētahi āhuatanga matua i te Whero. Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tautuhinga Whero i te reo Ingarihi Hei ture ahuwhānui, me mau maruhā i ngā wā kei rō whare koe. Ko ngā wāhi kāore e herea ana, mēnā kei te kāinga koe, kei tō wāhi mahi rānei, ā, kāore i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. Ka akiaki pea tō kaituku mahi kia mau maruhā koe ahakoa kāore tō tūranga mahi i te anga atu ki te iwi tūmatanui. E akiaki ana hoki mātou i a koe kia mau maruhā i ngā wā ka puta koe i tō whare.Tērā ētahi wāhi e herea ana koe ki te mau maruhā, pēnei: i runga waka rererangi rāroto i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi ūnga, wehe rānei o ngā rererangi ā-motu me ngā waka kawe tūmatanui mēnā kei rō whare. mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 8 tau, he tauira rānei kei te Tau 4, piki ake rānei, kei runga waka kawe tūmatanui, me ngā kawenga e utua ana e Te Tāhuhu o te Mātauranga i ngā tēkehi me ngā waka kawe-tiri i roto i nga pakihi hokohoko, hei tauira ngā hokomaha, ngā mōro, ngā kēmehi, ngā whare hinu me ngā whare ō rangaranga i roto i ngā wāhi tūmatanui, hei tauira, ngā whare taonga me ngā whare pukapuka, engari kaua i ngā whare kaukau i ngā whare whakaora kararehe i ngā taiao i rō whare i te kura, hei tauira, ngā akomanga me ngā huihuinga kura. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā manuhiri, ngā kaimahi, ngā ākonga me ngā kaiako i ngā Tau 4 ki te 13 i rō whare mātauranga matua ina haere ki tētahi kura kōhungahunga rēhita i ngā whare kai, whare inu hoki. Ka āhei koe ki te tango i tō maruhā ki te kai, te inu me te korikori tinana i ngā pākihi tūtata, hei tauira, ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā whare pani kanohi ina haere koe ki tētahi huihuinga i rō whare, hāunga i te wā nōu ake te kaupapa, ā, he motuhake. i ngā wāhi tūmatanui o ngā kōti, ngā taraipiunara, ngā tari kaunihera, kāwanatanga hoki, ngā kaiwhakarato ratonga pāpori me ngā Whare Pirihimana i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i te wā e toro atu ana ki ngā ratonga tiaki hauora, hei tauira, ngā whare tiaki kaumātua. Me mau maruhā ētahi i te wā e mahi ana rātou - māna, kua whakawāteatia. Me mau i tētahi maruhā ā-rongoā mēnā e mahi ana koe: i ngā wāhi manaaki i ngā pakihi tūtata ki te tangata, hei tauira, mēnā he kaikuti makawe koe i roto i ngā whare whakapakari tinana i tētahi huihuinga ngā kaiako o ngā ākonga Tau 4 ki te 13. Kua kore e herea ana te mau maruhā i ngā wāhi kei waho, ahakoa te tautuhinga rama e toru. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā wāhi tūnga pahi, tereina rānei kei waho. Me takahuri ngā taura o te maruhā e piri ana ki tō kanohi i ngā taringa, māhunga rānei. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua kore e whakaaetia ngā kāmeta, ngā aikiha, ngā tīhāte rānei hei ārai kanohi. E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru.E kore pea e mārama te kite atu i te take o te whakawāteatanga. Nō reira kia māhaki. Mēnā he whakawāteatanga tōu, kaua e māharahara ina pātai tētahi pakihi, kaimahi rānei ki a koe mēnā e taea ana e koe te mau maruhā. Ko tāna noa he whakarite i tō haumarutanga, me ō ētahi atu.Kāore i te tika kia pātai te pakihi, te kaimahi rānei ki a koe i te āhua o tō hauātanga, tō mate rānei. Engari, he tika ana kia tirohia e ia tō tohu whakawātea i te kore mau maruhā. --- Section Separator --- Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, ka kore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Whero. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi i te kāinga. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi rohe e rerekē ana ngā whakaritenga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e ngaro atu ana koe i te kāinga, me noho taratahi i taua wāhi e noho nā koe. Me whakarite koe i tētahi mahere ina tūpono noa tēnei āhuatanga. Māu tonu e utu i tō noho ki te noho taratahi i a koe e hāereere ana. E herea ana te mau maruhā i runga i ngā waka kawe tūmatanui katoa, i ngā ratonga waka tiri hoki, māna, ka taea e koe te noho i waho (hei tauira, te rahoraho o te kaipuke). Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Noho kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana Horoia ō ringa, whakamahia rānei te patuero Maremare, matihe rānei ki tō tuke Me auau te horoi, te patuero rānei ngā papa tiri Me whakapai ake i te kōhauhau Kia tawhiti tonu te tū i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tō ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel E haere ai koe i roto o Aotearoa, e tae mai ai koe i tāwāhi rānei, ka mate pea koe ki te whiwhi tiwhikete e tohu ana i tō tūnga kano ārai mate, te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, te kuhu atu rānei ki te wāhi noho taratahi. --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā kōrero me mōhio koe mō te hāereere i Aotearoa i raro i te pūnaha rama toru Me aha koe mēnā kei te whakarite koe ki te wehe i Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā kōrero me mōhio koe mō te hāereere i Aotearoa i raro i te pūnaha rama toru Me aha koe mēnā kei te whakarite koe ki te wehe i Aotearoa.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated Taku tohu ārai mate | My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, kāore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi He waehere QR a Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, e taea ai te whakamahi hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Ko tēnei anake te momo hāpono e whakaaetia ana. E kore e whakaaetia te kāri kano ārai mate waiporoporo i whiwhi pea koe i muri i tō werohanga ki te kano ārai mate, tētahi reta whakaū kano ārai mate rānei, e whakaaetia ana hei hāpono o tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, ka āhei koe ki te uru atu ki ētahi kaupapa me ētahi wāhi e whakahaere kaupapa ana i raro i te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 (pūnaha rama toru). E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Ka taea e koe te tono Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mēnā: he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, ā, kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer i Aotearoa. kua werohia ki te kano ārai mate koe i tāwāhi otirā he kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia (external link) . kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i Aotearoa. he aweretanga hauora tāu. Kei tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate tō ingoa, te rā whānau me te waehere QR. Ka taea e koe te puri ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mōnehu tō tohu e ono marama i muri i te rā tuku. Ko te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record te huarahi tere e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. He wā poto noa iho te roa o te tono i tō tohu, ā, ka īmēratia atu ki a koe i roto i te 24 hāora. Rapu me pēhea te rēhita mō te My Covid Record Kia hono ake koe ki My Covid Record: Takiaru. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpako ‘My Vaccine Pass’ (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) ka tīpako i ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request pass’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tohu hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tohu ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Mēnā kāore koe e uru atu ki My Covid Record, e hiahia ana rānei ki te tono tohu mā tētahi atu, tēnā whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki te whānuitanga o ngā taiopenga, ngā wāhi me ngā taiao tūmatanui. Ko ēnei pea ko ngā: taiopenga ngā wāhi manaaki ngā pakihi pānga tata pēnei i ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā whare whakapakari tinana hākinakina ngā huihuinga whakapono. Ka matawai te pakihi/taiopenga/wāhi i te waehere QR i runga i tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mā te taupānga manatoko tohu. Mā tēnei taupānga i whakaū i tō tūnga kano ārai. Ka tonoa pea koe ki te whakaatu i tō tuakiri ki te whakaū mēnā nāu tonu te tohu. E kore te taupānga e puri i ō raraunga. E kore e whakaaturia ētahi atu mōhiohio i tua atu i tō ingoa me tō rā whānau. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Tohu o Aotearoa E kore koe e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i te: hokomaha kēmehi ratonga hauora me te hauātanga ngā karāti penehīni waka tūmatanui - hei tauira, ngā pahi, ngā tereina me ngā waka kōpiko ngā kura me ngā kaiwhakarato mātauranga kōhungahunga ngā ratonga whare, tautoko whare hoki. E kore e taea te whakamahi i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mō te haere ki tāwāhi. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi atu whenua, me tono koe i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere Me tono koe ki Te Manatū Hauora mēnā he pūkete kano ārai mate tāhau nō tāwāhi hei tāpiri ake ki te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI o Aotearoa (CIR). Me oti tēnei mahi i mua i tō āheinga ki te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tiwhikete o tāwāhi (external link) E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā ngā take hauora, tērā tētahi tukanga whiwhi tohu whakawātea e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Me kōrero koe ki to tākuta, a, māna e tono mōu. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakawāteatanga me ngā tiwhikete (external link) --- Section Separator --- Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, kāore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi --- Section Separator --- He waehere QR a Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, e taea ai te whakamahi hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Ko tēnei anake te momo hāpono e whakaaetia ana. E kore e whakaaetia te kāri kano ārai mate waiporoporo i whiwhi pea koe i muri i tō werohanga ki te kano ārai mate, tētahi reta whakaū kano ārai mate rānei, e whakaaetia ana hei hāpono o tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, ka āhei koe ki te uru atu ki ētahi kaupapa me ētahi wāhi e whakahaere kaupapa ana i raro i te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 (pūnaha rama toru). E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Ka taea e koe te tono Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mēnā: he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, ā, kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer i Aotearoa. kua werohia ki te kano ārai mate koe i tāwāhi otirā he kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia (external link) . kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i Aotearoa. he aweretanga hauora tāu. Kei tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate tō ingoa, te rā whānau me te waehere QR. Ka taea e koe te puri ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mōnehu tō tohu e ono marama i muri i te rā tuku. Ko te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record te huarahi tere e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. He wā poto noa iho te roa o te tono i tō tohu, ā, ka īmēratia atu ki a koe i roto i te 24 hāora. Rapu me pēhea te rēhita mō te My Covid Record Kia hono ake koe ki My Covid Record: Takiaru. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpako ‘My Vaccine Pass’ (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) ka tīpako i ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request pass’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tohu hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tohu ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Mēnā kāore koe e uru atu ki My Covid Record, e hiahia ana rānei ki te tono tohu mā tētahi atu, tēnā whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki te whānuitanga o ngā taiopenga, ngā wāhi me ngā taiao tūmatanui. Ko ēnei pea ko ngā: taiopenga ngā wāhi manaaki ngā pakihi pānga tata pēnei i ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā whare whakapakari tinana hākinakina ngā huihuinga whakapono. Ka matawai te pakihi/taiopenga/wāhi i te waehere QR i runga i tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mā te taupānga manatoko tohu. Mā tēnei taupānga i whakaū i tō tūnga kano ārai. Ka tonoa pea koe ki te whakaatu i tō tuakiri ki te whakaū mēnā nāu tonu te tohu. E kore te taupānga e puri i ō raraunga. E kore e whakaaturia ētahi atu mōhiohio i tua atu i tō ingoa me tō rā whānau. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Tohu o Aotearoa E kore koe e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i te: hokomaha kēmehi ratonga hauora me te hauātanga ngā karāti penehīni waka tūmatanui - hei tauira, ngā pahi, ngā tereina me ngā waka kōpiko ngā kura me ngā kaiwhakarato mātauranga kōhungahunga ngā ratonga whare, tautoko whare hoki. E kore e taea te whakamahi i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mō te haere ki tāwāhi. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi atu whenua, me tono koe i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere Me tono koe ki Te Manatū Hauora mēnā he pūkete kano ārai mate tāhau nō tāwāhi hei tāpiri ake ki te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI o Aotearoa (CIR). Me oti tēnei mahi i mua i tō āheinga ki te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tiwhikete o tāwāhi (external link) E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā ngā take hauora, tērā tētahi tukanga whiwhi tohu whakawātea e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Me kōrero koe ki to tākuta, a, māna e tono mōu. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakawāteatanga me ngā tiwhikete (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home News and data Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. What you need to know Vaccination rates around NZ Media conferences Traffic lights map Latest case numbers --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. --- Section Separator --- The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Report a breach online
Home News and data Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Data and statistics available COVID-19 cases Vaccine data COVID-19 data portal COVID-19 modelling reports Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 11 April 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 257,813 Paediatric first doses administered (5 to 11) 257,813 Paediatric first doses administered (5 to 11) 98,343 Paediatric second doses administered (5 to 11) 98,343 Paediatric second doses administered (5 to 11) 2,599,366 Booster doses administered (16+) 2,599,366 Booster doses administered (16+) --- Section Separator --- Check our vaccinations map to find out how many people in your DHB or small area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- This data is updated every weekday. For weekend case numbers visit the Ministry of Health website: Latest news | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 11 April 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19 and testing in New Zealand. This includes: Current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics Source of COVID-19 cases Testing for COVID-19 We update this data every weekday. For weekend case numbers, visit the Ministry of Health website: Latest news | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 data and statistics | health.govt.nz (external link) 640 Cases in hospital 640 Cases in hospital 7,592 New community cases 7,592 New community cases 39 New cases at the border 39 New cases at the border 71,167 Active community cases 71,167 Active community cases --- Section Separator --- Last updated 11 April 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and COVID-19 related deaths. COVID-19 related deaths include: people whose cause of death was not COVID-19 but they had COVID-19 when they died people whose cause of death is still under investigation. COVID-19 current cases data | health.govt.nz (external link) 12 COVID-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours 12 COVID-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours 469 People who have died within 28 days of testing positive for COVID-19 469 People who have died within 28 days of testing positive for COVID-19 500 Total number of publicly reported COVID-19 related deaths 500 Total number of publicly reported COVID-19 related deaths --- Section Separator --- Last updated 11 April 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Testing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) 14,342 RATs reported in last 24 hours 14,342 RATs reported in last 24 hours 999 PCR tests in last 24 hours 999 PCR tests in last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | stats.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If the data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you are a researcher. COVID-19 data resources | health.govt.nz (external link)
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 1-10 of 926 updates 11 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 08 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 07 Apr 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 06 Apr 2022 From tomorrow, young people aged 16 and 17 can receive a free booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine at least six months after completing their primary course. 06 Apr 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 05 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 04 Apr 2022 NZ is seeing a drop in cases, but as Omicron takes hold in our regions, public health advice tells us now is not the time for the country to move to Orange. 04 Apr 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 4pm. 04 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 01 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speaker: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Chief Science Advisor Dr Ian Town --- Section Separator --- 21,616 new community cases 17 new cases identified at the border 960 cases in hospital 2,529 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 5,954 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 21,616 new community cases, 960 people in hospital with the virus, and two COVID-19 related deaths. Today’s case number is higher than yesterday’s number however it’s not unexpected to see variability. It’s also not unusual to have a lower number of tests on a weekend compared to the number of tests on a weekday and this can have a follow on impact for cases identified. The three day rolling average of community cases is currently 17,136 and the seven day rolling average is 19,226. Getting boosted remains one of the best defences against Omicron. We know the Omicron variant can cause serious illness and death either directly or by its impact on other health conditions, particularly for our older and more vulnerable New Zealanders. Getting boosted will not only reduce your risk of severe illness, but it will also help to protect our most vulnerable communities. Sadly, we are today reporting the deaths of two people with COVID-19. Of these people, one death occurred in Southern and one in Capital & Coast DHBs. Both people, one man and one woman, were aged over 70. Our thoughts and condolences are with the patients’ family and friends. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Testing continues to play an important part in our response to COVID-19. If you’re symptomatic, please stay at home and get a test. If you’re unsure whether or not to get a test, please contact your health professional or Health on 0800 358 5453 and follow advice. If you test positive for COVID-19, you are required to isolate for 7 days. You do not need to be retested after your initial positive result. If you still have symptoms after 7 days, stay home until you feel better and then wait another 24 hours. Your household contacts should also stay at home, have tests at day 3 and 7 or if they develop symptoms. Read the latest update from the Ministry of Health (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Andrew Old, Chief Clinical Officer for the Northern Region Health Coordination Centre Dr Vanessa Thornton, Emergency Physician and Clinical Director Hospital Services for Counties Manukau DHB Watch the livestream | nzherald.co.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- 19,566 new community cases 25 new cases identified at the border 930 cases in hospital 5,199 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 43,980 rapid antigen test results reported in the last 24 hours 6,003 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- The Ministry would like to thank the many people who are getting tested and reporting results As we are seeing the vast majority of positive results coming from Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT), it’s essential people continue to report their result – whether it is positive or negative. It is the best way to give public health officials an overview of case numbers in particular areas of New Zealand, to help determine the best spread of public health resources. It is also important if your condition worsens, and you require additional healthcare. From last Friday (11 March), in addition to reporting the test results through ‘My Covid Record’, parents and caregivers are now able to report test results of children under 12 and other family members by calling the My Covid Record team on 0800 222 478 . To date, more than 13,000 people have recorded RAT results in ‘My Covid Record’ on behalf of family members. Sadly, we are today reporting 10 people who have died with COVID-19. This takes the total number of publicly reported COVID related deaths to 151 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths to 8. Of these 10 people who have died, one was from Northland, five from Auckland, one from the Bay of Plenty, one from Hawke’s Bay, and one from the Hutt Valley. One of these people, one was in their 30s, one in their 50s, three in their 70s, two in their 80s and two in their 90s. Four were women and were five were men. Demographic information for one person is not available at this stage. Our thoughts are with their family and friends at this sad time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the latest update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Dr Anthony Jordan, Northern Region Health Coordination Centre Associate Chief Clinical Officer Helen Petousis-Harris, vaccinologist and Associate Professor at the University of Auckland --- Section Separator --- 14,128 new community cases 18 new cases identified at the border 943 cases in hospital 4,456 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 40,157 rapid antigen test results reported in the last 24 hours 5,335 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today there are 14,128 cases to report and 943 people in hospital with COVID-19. We are continuing to see increases in hospitalisations and demand in primary care and the Ministry of Health would like to acknowledge and sincerely thank health staff throughout the country who have been working tirelessly to care for those with COVID-19, on top of the range of care being provided to people across the health system. The Ministry of Health continues to work closely with DHBs to ensure there is a good level of capacity across the health system. The best way to reduce the risk of severe illness from COVID-19 is to be up to date with vaccinations. So, if you are due any dose of the vaccine, including a booster, please get vaccinated as quickly as possible to ensure you are well protected against Omicron. The Ministry would like to thank the many people who are getting tested and reporting results. Our message today is simple: positive, or negative, please report your RAT result. How to report your RAT results It only takes a couple of minutes, and helps health officials assess the outbreak and better understand the spread of Omicron. In addition to reporting the test results through My Covid Record, parents and caregivers are now able to report test results of children under 12 and other family members by calling the My Covid Record team on 0800 222 478 . Sadly, 5 deaths of people with COVID-19 have been formally reported in the past 24 hours. This takes the total number of publicly reported COVID related deaths to 156 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths to 8. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with, rather than of COVID-19, and COVID being determined after they have died.  Due to these fluctuations in the daily reported figures, the Ministry regards the 7 day rolling average as a better indicator of deaths with COVID. Of the 5 people who have died, 2 were from Auckland, 1 from Waikato, 1 from Canterbury, and 1 from the Hutt Valley. Of these people, 1 was in their 50s, 2 in their 70s and 2 in their 80s. 2 were women and 3 were men. Our thoughts are with their family and friends at this sad time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the latest update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Primary Care lead Dr Joe Bourne Watch the livestream here from 1pm. --- Section Separator --- 20,907 new community cases 34 new cases identified at the border 1,016 cases in hospital 2,007 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 43,768 rapid antigen test results reported in the last 24 hours 3,763 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 20,907 community cases, 1,016 hospitalisations and 15 deaths. We have seen an increase today in case numbers across most regions of New Zealand, however it’s not unexpected as we generally see lower testing and reporting over weekends. Getting boosted continues to be one of the most important ways people can protect themselves from Omicron and severe illness. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your vaccinations, which, for Omicron, includes a third or booster dose. Sadly, we are today reporting an additional 15 people have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported COVID related deaths to 199 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths to 10. Of these 15 people who have died, 9 are from the Auckland region, 3 from Waikato, and 3 from the Wellington region One of these people was in their 50s, 3 in their 60s, 6 in their 70s, and 5 were in their 80s. Eight were men and 7 were women. Our thoughts and condolences are with their family and friends at this sad time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Testing continues to play an important part in our response to COVID-19. If you’re symptomatic, please stay at home and get a test. If you’re unsure whether or not to get a test, please contact your health professional or Health on 0800 358 5453 and follow advice. If you test positive for COVID-19, you are required to isolate for 7 days. You do not need to be retested after your initial positive result. You can return to work or school after your isolation period ends without another test, unless you work in a high risk workplace like a healthcare setting. If you still have symptoms after 7 days, stay home until you feel better and then wait another 24 hours. Your household contacts should also stay at home, have tests at day 3 and 7 or if they develop symptoms. Read the latest update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield. --- Section Separator --- 18,423 new community cases 44 new cases identified at the border 913 cases in hospital 3,268 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 36,969 total rapid antigen test (RAT) results reported in the last 24 hours 3,694 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 11 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 221 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths to 10. Of these 11 deaths we are reporting today, two people are from the Auckland region, two are from Bay of Plenty, six are from Waikato, and one is from the Wellington region. Two of these people were in their 50s, one person was in their 70s, four people were in their 80s, and four people were in their 90s. Six were men and five were women. Our thoughts and condolences are with their whānau and friends at this sad time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the Ministry of Health's full update | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Chief Clinical Officer for the Northern Region Health Coordination Centre, Andrew Old Chief Executive of The Fono, Tevita Funaki Chief Executive of South Seas, Lemalu Silao Vaisola-sefo Dr Fiona Mariner-Shepherd from Southpoint Doctors --- Section Separator --- 15,871 new community cases 29 new cases identified at the border 899 cases in hospital 3,142 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 32,575 total rapid antigen test (RAT) results reported in the last 24 hours 2,996 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 15,871 community cases, 899 hospitalisations and 13 deaths. Every hospitalisation is a reminder of the importance of getting vaccinated to prevent severe illness from COVID-19. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your vaccinations, which for Omicron includes a third or booster dose. So, if you’re due any dose of the vaccine, please get vaccinated as soon as possible to ensure you are well protected against Omicron. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 13 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 234 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths to 11. Of these 13 deaths we are reporting today, four people are from the Auckland region, one is from Bay of Plenty, one is from Waikato, one is from Hawke’s Bay, one is from Taranaki, one is from MidCentral, and four are from the Wellington region. One of these people was in their 30s, three people were in their 60s, five people were in their 70s, three people were in their 80s, and one person was in their 90s. Eight were men and five were women. Our thoughts and condolences are with their whānau and friends at this sad time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the Ministry of Health's full update | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speaker: Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay Ministry lead for Care in the Community Dr Joe Bourne Watch the livestream below. --- Section Separator --- 17,148 new community cases 44 new cases identified at the border 842 cases in hospital 2,208 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 34,977 total rapid antigen test (RAT) results reported in the last 24 hours 2,156 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- We have seen an increase today in case numbers across most regions of New Zealand, however it’s not unexpected as we generally see lower testing and reporting over weekends. Despite today's increase, it's encouraging to see the seven day rolling average of cases decline. Today's seven day rolling average is 15,565; this compares with the seven day rolling average of cases as at last Tuesday of 17,020. Getting boosted continues to be one of the most important ways people can protect themselves from Omicron and severe illness. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your vaccinations, which, for Omicron, includes a third or booster dose if eligible. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 34 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 303 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths to 15. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the past 10 days but were only recently notified to the Ministry. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with, rather than of COVID-19, and COVID being discovered after they have died. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 2 were from Northland, 17 from the Auckland region, 2 from Waikato, 1 from the Bay of Plenty, 1 from the Lakes DHB, 2 from Hawke’s Bay, 5 from the Wellington region, 3 from Canterbury, and 1 from Southern. One person was in their 30s, 1 person was in their 50s, 5 were in their 60s, 9 were in their 70s, 7 in their 80s and 11 were in their 90s. Seventeen were male and 17 were female. Our thoughts and condolences are with their whānau and friends at this sad time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the Ministry of Health's full update | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for the COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Associate Minister of Health Ayesha Verrall Watch the livestream below. --- Section Separator --- 15,918 new community cases 48 new cases identified at the border 817 cases in hospital 3,259 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 30,641 total rapid antigen test (RAT) results reported in the last 24 hours 2,329 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- It's encouraging to see case numbers continuing to decline. This supports the trend we are seeing across the seven day rolling average. Today's seven day rolling average is 14,969; this compares with the seven day rolling average of cases as at last Wednesday of 17,111. Getting boosted continues to be one of the most important ways people can protect themselves from Omicron and severe illness. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your vaccinations, which, for Omicron, includes a third or booster dose if eligible. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 14 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the past six days but were only recently notified to the Ministry. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with, rather than of COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 317 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 15. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, four were from the Auckland region, four from Waikato, one from the Lakes DHB, one from the Wellington region, one from Nelson Marlborough, one from Canterbury, one from South Canterbury and one from Southern. Five people were in their 70s, six in their 80s and three were in their 90s. One was female and thirteen were male. Our thoughts and condolences are with their whānau and friends at this sad time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Professor Peter McIntyre Watch the livestream below. --- Section Separator --- 15,250 new community cases 39 new cases identified at the border 830 cases in hospital 3,720 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 30,153 total rapid antigen test (RAT) results reported in the last 24 hours 2,123 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 15,250 community cases, 830 hospitalisations and 22 deaths. It's encouraging to see case numbers continuing to decline. This supports the trend we are seeing across the 7-day rolling average. Today's 7 day rolling average is 14,515; this compares with the 7-day rolling average of cases as at last Wednesday of 16,949. Getting boosted continues to be one of the most important ways people can protect themselves from Omicron and severe illness. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your vaccinations, which, for Omicron, includes a third or booster dose if eligible. Our national vaccination programme continues, with many opportunities around the country. As an example, today Randwick Park Community Centre in Manurewa is hosting a pop-up vaccination event between 2pm and 7pm. Parents and caregivers in South Auckland are warmly encouraged to come along for their booster, and also bring along their 5- to 11-year-olds after school to get immunised against COVID-19. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 22 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the past four weeks but were only recently notified to the Ministry. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with, rather than of COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 338 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 17. Note, one previously reported death is being removed from total as it was reported twice. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 1 was from Northland, 10 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 2 were from Bay of Plenty, 2 were from the Lakes DHB, 2 were from the Wellington region, and 4 were from Canterbury. Two people were in their 50s, 4 people were in their 60s, 3 people were in their 70s, 6 in their 80s and 7 were over-90. 15 were female and 7 were male. Our thoughts and condolences are with their whānau and friends at this sad time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield The Prime Minister will address the situation in Ukraine, and the COVID-19 Protection Framework.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for the COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the media conference here. --- Section Separator --- 12,575 new community cases 43 new cases identified at the border 654 cases in hospital 7,727 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 24,520 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,621 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 12,575 community cases, 654 hospitalisations and 15 deaths. It's encouraging to see case numbers continuing to decline. This supports the trend we are seeing across the seven-day rolling average. Today's seven-day average is 12,307, while last Wednesday it was 14,969. From tomorrow, people aged 16 and 17 will be able to receive a free booster dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine at least six months after completion of their primary course. A booster dose is particularly recommended for 16 and 17-year-olds who are at higher risk of severe COVID-19 symptoms and hospitalisation. This includes those who are immunocompromised (or living with a family member who is immunocompromised) and Māori and Pacific rangatahi. A booster, in addition to first and second doses of the vaccine, is the best defence against Omicron. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 15 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the previous four weeks. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID-19 being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 443 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 18. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, three people were from the Auckland region, five from Waikato, one from Taranaki, one from Whanganui, one from MidCentral, one from Nelson Marlborough, one from West Coast, one from Canterbury, and one from South Canterbury. Two were in their 60s, two in their 70s, four in their 80s, and seven were over 90. Six were women and nine were men. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Director of Public Health Dr Caroline McElnay Watch the media conference here. --- Section Separator --- 11,634 new community cases 51 new cases identified at the border 639 cases in hospital 2,719 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 23,926 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,704 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 11,634 community cases, 639 hospitalisations and 13 deaths. It's encouraging to see case numbers continuing to decline. This supports the trend we are seeing across the 7-day rolling average. Today's 7-day average is 11,791, while last Thursday it was 14,515. From today, people aged 16 and 17 are able to receive a free booster dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine at least 6 months after completion of their primary course. A booster, in addition to first and second doses of the vaccine, is the best defence against Omicron and severe illness. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your vaccinations, which, for Omicron, includes a third or booster dose if eligible. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 13 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the past 10 days. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 456 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 17. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 3 people were from Northland, 1 from Auckland, 2 from Waikato, 1 from Bay of Plenty, 1 from Whanganui, 2 from West Coast and 3 from Southern. Three were in their 30s, 2 in their 50s, 2 in their 60s, 4 in their 70s, 1 in their 80s, and 1 over 90. Seven were women and 6 were men. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 11:30am. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Minister for Tourism Hon Stuart Nash --- Section Separator --- The Government is bringing forward the date for opening the border to tourists in time for the Australian school holidays, in a move that will help accelerate the economic recovery from COVID-19. From 11:59pm Tuesday 12 April, Australians will be able to travel to New Zealand isolation-free, and then 2 and a half weeks later from 11:59pm Sunday 1 May, vaccinated travellers from visa-waiver countries such as the large tourist markets of the UK, US, Japan, Germany, Korea and Singapore, and those with valid visitor visas, will be able to arrive. Government reopens New Zealand for tourism
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 11am. Speaker: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Watch the livestream here.
The Government is bringing forward the date for opening the border to tourists in time for the Australian school holidays, in a move that will help accelerate the economic recovery from COVID-19. From 11:59pm Tuesday 12 April, Australians will be able to travel to New Zealand isolation-free, and then 2 and a half weeks later from 11:59pm Sunday 1 May, vaccinated travellers from visa-waiver countries such as the large tourist markets of the UK, US, Japan, Germany, Korea and Singapore, and those with valid visitor visas, will be able to arrive. Closing our border was one of the first actions we took to stop COVID-19 2 years ago. It did the job we needed. But now that we are highly vaccinated and predicted to be off our Omicron peak, it is now safe to open up. Reopening in time for the upcoming Australian school holidays will help spur our economic recovery in the short term and is good news for the winter ski season. Trans-Tasman travellers have historically made up 40% of our international arrivals, with around 1.5 million Australians visiting each year. While we know it will take some time to see tourism scale up again, today’s announcement will be a welcome boost for our tourism operators who have done it harder than many over the last two years. In a world still battling COVID-19, travellers will be discerning about where they go in the short term. Our strong health response including the lowest death rate in the OECD over the past 2 years and our high rates of vaccination, alongside our reputation as a beautiful place to visit, will be an asset in this market. New Zealand is a country which is able to provide a safe place for tourists to return to due to our strong health response to COVID-19. Record export prices for our goods show that New Zealand is in demand internationally at the moment. A big focus of the rest of this year will be encouraging the world to buy our goods and to visit. An earlier reopening for tourism, and the air travel that brings, also increases capacity for our exports, helping to lower freight rates and the flow-on costs of goods that stems from that. We know that traveller numbers will be below pre-COVID levels for awhile and tourism globally will take time to rebound, but today’s announcement means we are ready to go, so haere mai welcome back. Tourists will not need to isolate on arrival, they will be required to have had a pre-departure test, with two further rapid antigen tests on day 0/1 and 5/6. Prior to COVID-19, tourism contributed 5.5% to GDP, bringing in about $41 billion altogether, international making up $17 billion of that. It was also responsible for 8% of our national workforce. Further advice will be received shortly on options for non-visa waiver travellers, which are currently due to come in from October.
New Zealand is boosting its comprehensive suite of medicines to treat COVID-19 with the arrival in the country of one medication, Paxlovid, and the securing of access to the country’s first pre-exposure prophylactic treatment. Two years ago, at the start of the pandemic, we had no vaccines or medicines to specifically treat COVID-19 or prevent it spreading. Now, we have four vaccines and 95 per cent of eligible people are vaccinated, and four medicines being used in hospitals to treat people who need it – Baricitinib, Ronapreve, Remdesivir and Tocilizumab. From next week Paxlovid will be added to the mix – pills that people with mild cases who are at the highest risk of becoming seriously unwell can take at home. The first shipment of Paxlovid has arrived in New Zealand ahead of schedule and from next week will be offered to those most at risk. Access to Paxlovid will be tight to make sure it gets to the people who need it most. It will be prescribed by doctors, with factors such as age, disability and being immuno-compromised taken into account. Pharmac, the national medicines-funding agency, has also secured access to another medicine, Molnupiravir, which is awaiting Medsafe approval. It has also secured access to a seventh medicine, AstraZeneca’s Evusheld, which can prevent people who can’t have vaccines from getting COVID-19. Evusheld is a pre-exposure prophylactic treatment that can actually stop people developing COVID-19, and, if approved by Medsafe, will be an invaluable tool to protect people who can’t have vaccines. It means we will have medicines to treat those who need it, from before an infection sets in right through to cases of severe infection. It’s a remarkable achievement in two years, and part of our plan to keep New Zealanders safe as we head into winter. The emergence of highly effective vaccines and medicines means we can better manage COVID-19 while reopening our borders and easing restrictions. They mean we can shift our focus towards recovery more secure in the knowledge we have a highly vaccinated population and those most at risk of the virus will also have medicines to help protect them. Funding for all COVID medicines comes from the Government’s COVID-19 fund.
New Zealand is donating 50,000 paediatric doses of the Pfizer vaccine and 50,000 rapid antigen tests to support Fiji vaccination and testing efforts. These doses will enable Fiji to provide a layer of assurance against COVID-19 for its young population. We are proud to support the Government of Fiji as they roll-out their paediatric vaccination campaign for 5- to 11-year-olds and provide a much needed area of support to strengthen Fiji’s overall health response. This donation also reaffirms New Zealand’s commitment to the Duavata Partnership with Fiji, signed in Suva this week, and ongoing support to vaccination efforts in the Pacific. Over the past two years COVID-19 has had profound health, economic and social impacts on our Pacific whanaunga. Fiji has been highly successful in implementing their COVID-19 vaccination plan and this contribution builds on our earlier support. New Zealand has been proactive in assisting our Pacific neighbours, including Fiji, and our cooperative COVID-19 response has highlighted what we can achieve together as open and collaborative partners. Today’s contribution adds to a package of over $100 million that New Zealand has contributed in emergency budget support and humanitarian assistance to respond to the health, economic and social impacts of COVID-19 in Fiji.
It’s encouraging to see fewer cases. Yesterday was the lowest number we’ve seen since 25 February. Four weeks ago we were averaging around 20,000 cases a day, compared to today where that average is just over 13,000. But while the drop in cases is mainly in Auckland and Wellington, other places are not yet in the same position. Hospitalisations have dropped in Auckland, but continue to plateau in regions like Canterbury, Waikato and Northland. As a result, the public health advice is that it is not yet the time to ease the existing restrictions and drop down to Orange. Ministers will review these settings again next week. We have put this check in place due to the pace at which we are seeing the COVID-19 situation changing, and acknowledging that Easter and the upcoming school holidays are an important time for businesses — particularly those in our tourist regions. As we have learned over the last two years, keeping ourselves and each other safe from COVID-19 continues to be a team effort. Nearly two weeks ago we announced changes to the COVID-19 Protection Framework to make it simpler and allow us to live more normal lives, while keeping the public health measures in place that we know work. We also announced changes to vaccine passes and mandates. At 11:59pm tonight, Kiwis will no longer need to use My Vaccine Pass. This was an extremely useful tool while we were getting the country vaccinated and in our fight against Delta, but with around 95% of the eligible adult population at least double dosed, we no longer need this. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they choose to but from tonight, it’s not required. Government vaccine mandates for all sectors except health and care workers, prison staff, and border workers will be removed from tonight. They remain for health and care workers and prison staff because they come into contact with a lot of people who are at high risk of serious illness from COVID-19, and for our border workers because they are the first people who would likely be exposed to any new variant of concern that emerges internationally. Our COVID-19 response has always prioritised the health of kiwis by ensuring we’re protecting our immunocompromised and high-risk members in our communities. Red means wearing a face mask in most indoor settings, limiting indoor capacity to 200, and if you catch COVID-19 — or someone you live with does — isolating for 7 days. Next to being vaccinated and having a booster, face masks are our best defence against COVID-19. Wearing them can reduce new cases of the virus by as much as 53%. That means by putting on a face mask you are contributing to lowering our case numbers, lowering the numbers of people in hospital, and lowering the number of deaths.
The evidence shows we are coming off the Omicron peak with cases in Auckland having already declined significantly, and a decline expected nationally by early April. To date we have had more than 500,000 reported cases of COVID-19 and expert modellers say there have probably been 1.7 million actual infections. That figure, coupled with 95 percent of New Zealanders being fully vaccinated, means we now have a high level of collective immunity. New Zealanders have worked incredibly hard to get through this pandemic and as a result of those efforts we are now in a position to move forward and change the way we do things. First up we have simplified the COVID-19 Protection Framework to target restrictions at those activities that reduce transmission the most. From 4 April, My Vaccine Pass will no longer be required by the Government meaning Kiwis will no longer have to be vaccinated in order to enter those venues covered by the Pass. Scanning in requirements for the vaccinated will also end. We recognise that some businesses, events or venues may still choose to use vaccine passes, so we will maintain the infrastructure for them. From 4 April, vaccine mandates will be removed, except for health and disability, aged care, corrections and border workforces. Like many other countries we are retaining a small number of mandates targeted at keeping our COVID-19 frontline staff safe and to ensure our most vulnerable, like those in aged care facilities or those with disabilities, are protected from the virus. For many this part of our defence against COVID-19 was one of the hardest. But mandates meant we reached the levels of vaccination needed to prevent the devastating outbreaks seen across the world. We have also used the evidence gathered over the last few months on Omicron to make changes to the Red and Orange settings. From midnight this Friday outdoor gathering limits will be lifted. We know being outdoors for gatherings is safe. We want to encourage that, especially at Red. We also believe we can lift indoor gathering limits at Red with little material impact on hospitalisations, so these will double from 100 to 200. Orange settings remain broadly the same with no gathering limits but extra guidance on holding safe events, and a new requirement for workers to wear masks at indoor events. And so, simply put, Red means indoor gathering limits and masks, Orange means masks, and Green means guidance. At all levels, the testing and isolation requirements remain as they are now. We are keeping the traffic light framework in order to offer ongoing protections in the event of a new variant or in cases of future surges, but our plan is to move down to Orange and then ultimately Green once it is safe to do so. Putting people’s health is the best economic approach. The hard work and sacrifices of New Zealanders delivered the lowest numbers of cases and deaths in the OECD for the last two years and puts us in the best position to recover strongly. With our cases coming down it’s time to take our next steps with confidence in the collective immunity and protections we have built up. These new settings support greater economic activity and get everyone closer to feeling a bit more normal, while also continuing to manage COVID-19 and provide protection and care for those who need it most. With our economy now larger than pre-COVID levels, record low levels of unemployment, and tourism about to reopen we are in a strong position to accelerate our recovery. Our COVID-19 restrictions have been tough, but they have delivered a strong foundation for us to move forward.
Schools, kura and early learning centres will now be provided with rapid antigen tests to give to symptomatic children, young people and staff, and the people in their households. The Ministry of Education currently has several hundred thousand tests to hand and will receive nearly a million more over the next week to be distributed through its regional offices. Schools, kura and early learning services can opt-in to receive a supply of tests. The goal is to keep schools and early learning centres open, and the advice and feedback I have received from the education sector is that greater access to rapid antigen testing could help them to do that. I know this is an uncertain time for a lot of us and we want young people and children to stay healthy and well. But we also want schools and early learning centres to stay open so that learning can continue in person, young people can see their teachers and friends and parents and caregivers can continue to go to work. Early learning centres will also be able to access rapid antigen tests for reassurance testing, so that parents can have confidence in their centre to stay open and for their children to continue to attend. Those centres that opt-in will receive enough tests for staff to do twice-weekly testing. Staff at specialist schools and special needs units will also be able to access rapid antigen testing for this purpose and will be prioritised for distribution, as will staff at school hostels. This is a voluntary, short term measure while we get through the peak of the Omicron outbreak. It will be reviewed again in a few weeks’ time. All results must be recorded on My Covid Record and if a person tests positive, they and their household contacts must complete 7 days in isolation. The Close Contact Exemption Scheme remains available if needed, to enable Household Contacts with no symptoms to continue going to work as long as they return a negative rapid antigen test each day. As our rapid antigen test numbers grow we have more options. People will now be able to access rapid antigen tests through their child’s school or early learning centre if they are symptomatic, rather than having to go to a community testing centre. Schools and early learning centres already have very good protections in place with all staff required to be vaccinated, mask use in Year 4 and up and good ventilation. In fact portable air cleaners are already being sent to schools to be used in classrooms, staffrooms and other spaces where there is a need to supplement natural ventilation. State and state-integrated schools have been using their CO2 monitors to help identify where improvements are needed, and the government is ensuring those improvements can be made either through property interventions, and temporarily using portable air cleaners if the fix is going to take longer. In addition to these targeted approaches, we expect all schools will have at least one portable air cleaner by May they can consider using in areas with higher COVID-19 airborne transmission risk, for example staffrooms, music rooms or cafeterias. Larger schools will receive more, and a further procurement is underway to identify suppliers to meet any future need for CO2 monitors and portable air cleaners from here.
13,475 new community cases 49 new cases identified at the border 764 cases in hospital 3,427 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 26,996 total RATs in the last 24 hours 2,235 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- The seven-day rolling average of case numbers continues to decline. Today's seven-day rolling average is 14,171, while the seven-day rolling average of cases as at last Friday was 17,197. Getting boosted continues to be one of the most important ways people can protect themselves from Omicron and severe illness. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your vaccinations, which, for Omicron, includes a third or booster dose if eligible. Our national vaccination programme continues, with many opportunities around the country. It will be a big weekend for the Bay of Plenty, with a host of iwi-led COVID-19 vaccination events right across the rohe, supported by the local DHB. Tomorrow there will be tamariki-focused events in Katikati, Tauranga, Te Puke, Kawerau, Ōpōtiki and Whakatāne. Tauranga and Whakatāne will have events on Sunday as well. Parents and whānau can also take the opportunity to get vaccinated alongside the kids. There will be kai, stress-free spaces, and activities for everyone. Find out when and where from the BoP DHB website (external link) . Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 17 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the past seven days, including 15 in the past two days. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 355 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 17. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, seven were from the Auckland region, two from Waikato, one from Bay of Plenty, one from Lakes DHB, one from Hawke’s Bay, one from the Wellington region, one from Canterbury, one from the West Coast, and two from Southern. Two people were in their 50s, four people were in their 60s, five people were in their 70s, three in their 80s and three were over-90. Fifteen were male and two were female. Our thoughts and condolences are with their whānau and friends at this sad time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
7,592 new community cases 39 new cases identified at the border 640 cases in hospital 999 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 14,342 total RATs in the last 24 hours 860 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 7,592 community cases, 640 hospitalisations and 11 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of case numbers continues to decline, with today's seven-day rolling average at 10,169 – last Monday it was 13,218. The number of reported community cases is expected to continue to fluctuate day to day, and is usually lower over the weekend with less reporting of results and testing. While overall the number of community cases is trending downwards, please continue to follow public health advice to stay at home, away from school or work if you are feeling unwell and, when not at home, use a mask in indoor settings to protect yourself and others. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19 and a booster, in addition to first and second doses of the COVID-19 vaccine, will give you greater immunity against Omicron and severe illness. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your vaccinations, which, for Omicron, includes a third or booster dose if eligible. If you or your whānau are due for a COVID-19 vaccination, please make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 11 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include 10 people who have died in the past three days and one person who died 12 days ago. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID-19 being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 500 and the seven-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, three people were from the Auckland region, three from Waikato, one from Hawke’s Bay, one from Taranaki, one from the Wellington region, and two from Canterbury. Two were aged in their 60s, three in their 70s, three in their 80s, and three over 90. Five were female and six were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
19,542 new community cases 35 new cases identified at the border 971 cases in hospital 5,241 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 5,484 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are announcing 8 people who died with COVID-19 yesterday and an additional 16 people who died in the past 3 weeks.  Among the 24 deaths reported today are 8 people whom we know died at aged residential care facilities. Local public health authorities have notified these deaths to the Ministry of Health in the past 24 hours as part of changes to the reporting of deaths announced last week. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with, rather than of COVID-19, and COVID being discovered after they have died. This takes the total number of publicly reported deaths to date to 141. The rolling 7-day average of deaths publicly announced over the past 7 days is 7, up from 4 yesterday. At this point in the outbreak, we are seeing increasing numbers of people dying with Omicron. Sadly, this trend is not unexpected, and our thoughts are with the families of these people. As has occurred with Omicron overseas, while COVID-19 cases are usually seen in higher numbers among younger people early in the outbreak, over time the more severe and fatal consequences of the virus fall disproportionately on our older and more vulnerable populations. The average stay in hospital for COVID-19 patients in the Northern region is lengthening, and the average age increasing. This indicates those being admitted are more likely to be vulnerable because of their older age and pre-existing non-COVID health conditions. In New Zealand we have taken significant steps to limit the spread of COVID-19 in aged care facilities, such as pausing or limiting visitors, strong infection prevention and control measures, and limiting the rotation of staff among facilities. One of the best things everyone can do to protect older and more vulnerable people, including family and loved ones, is to get vaccinated and get boosted. Of the 24 people being reported today, 3 died in Northland, 7 in Auckland, 7 in Waikato, 2 in the Bay of Plenty, 2 in MidCentral and 2 in Wairarapa. One of these people was in their 40s, one in their 50s, 4 in their 60s, 3 in their 70s, 8 in their 80s and 6 in their 90s. 11 were women and 12 were men. Demographic information for one person is not available. The average age of the people announced today was 79 and this has been increasing over the last week. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
14,463 new community cases 32 new cases identified at the border 1,000 cases in hospital 1,520 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 29,618 total RATs in the last 24 hours 2,244 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 14,463 community cases, 1,000 hospitalisations and 9 deaths. Every COVID-19 hospitalisation is a reminder of the importance of getting vaccinated to prevent severe illness from Omicron. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your vaccinations, which for Omicron includes a third or booster dose. So, if you’re due any dose of the vaccine, including a booster, please get vaccinated as quickly as possible to ensure you are well protected against Omicron. Sadly, we are today reporting an additional 9 people have died with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported COVID related deaths to 184 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths to 10. Of these 9 people who have died, 5 are from Auckland region, 2 from Waikato, and 1 from Wairarapa and 1 from Bay of Plenty. One of these people was in their 20s, one in their 60s, one in their 70s, two in their eighties and four in their nineties. Five were men and 4 were women. Our thoughts are with their family and friends at this sad time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Four million Kiwis are now double dose vaccinated against COVID-19. More than 95% of those 12 and over have now completed their primary vaccination course, which is a significant achievement for Aotearoa. Across New Zealand, 3,509,497 have now had their booster, which is 73% of those that have become due. More than 950,000 people can and should get their booster as soon as they can. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
20,087 new community cases 43 new cases identified at the border 960 cases in hospital 3,483 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 40,294 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,972 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 20,087 community cases, 960 hospitalisations and 11 deaths. Getting boosted continues to be one of the most important ways people can protect themselves from Omicron and severe illness. Please if you are due a vaccination, whether it be a second shot or booster, make an appointment today. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised or of severe illness if you are up to date with your vaccinations. Today we are sadly reporting an additional 11 COVID-19 related deaths. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported COVID-19 related deaths to 210 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths to 9. Of these 11 people who have died, 2 are from Northland, 5 are from the Auckland region, 1 is from Bay of Plenty and 3 from the Wellington region. One of these people was in their 30s, 1 in their 60s, 1 in their 70s, 4 people were in their 80s and 4 people in their 90s. Six were men and 5 were women. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
12,882 new community cases 52 new cases identified at the border 861 cases in hospital 1,479 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 22,873 total RAT results reported in the last 24 hours 1,101 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health continues to encourage people to be up to date with their vaccinations – including being boosted as the booster restores vaccine effectiveness for Omicron to 90% after it declines following your second dose. Our best protection both for ourselves, and for our whānau, especially as we look towards Easter weekend gatherings, is to be up-to-date with vaccinations – which includes a booster. Often those at the greatest risk of becoming sick with COVID-19 are older family members and those with comorbidities such as asthma, diabetes, and other long-term conditions. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 11 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 269 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths to 12. Of the nine deaths we have full details for, two were from the Auckland region, five from Waikato and one each from MidCentral and Nelson Marlborough. Three people were in their 70s, three in their 80s and three people were in their 90s. Seven were men and two were women. Our thoughts and condolences are with their whānau and friends at this sad time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Advice has been updated for critical healthcare workers wishing to return to work if they have COVID-19 or are a household contact. The healthcare worker guidance has been updated to enable healthcare staff who are cases or contacts to return to work if they choose to, are well and have regular negative rapid antigen tests. For more information, visit our updated guidance. (external link) Read the Ministry of Health's full update | health.govt.nz (external link)
10,205 new community cases 33 new cases identified at the border 734 cases in hospital 1,634 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 18,818 total RATs in the last 24 hours 866 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 10,205 community cases, 734 hospitalisations and 9 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of case numbers continues to decline, today's seven-day rolling average is 13,218, while the seven-day rolling average of cases as at last Monday was 16,102. A reminder that from 11:59pm tonight, there is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. As restrictions around the pass ease, it is important for people to continue to follow public health advice to stay at home, away from school or work if you’re feeling unwell. Another way to protect you and your whanau is to get vaccinated if you haven’t already done so. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19 and getting boosted is an important way people can protect themselves, their whanau and their friends from the virus. Please if you are due for a vaccination, whether it be a second shot or booster, make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 9 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the past 3 days. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 405 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 20. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, one person was from the Auckland region, three from Waikato, two from Lakes, two from the Wellington region, and one from Southern. One person was in their 50s, one in their 60s, one in their 70s, two in their 80s, and four were over 90. Five were men and four were women. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
14,120 new community cases 48 new cases identified at the border 692 cases in hospital 5,967 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 23,363 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,735 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 14,120 community cases, 692 hospitalisations and 23 deaths. Although we have seen a slight increase in case numbers from yesterday, it’s not unexpected as we generally see lower testing and reporting over the weekends. We are continuing to see a decline in the seven-day rolling average of cases. Today's seven-day average is 12,785, while last Tuesday it was 15,565. Vaccination is still our best defence against COVID-19 and getting boosted is an important way people can protect themselves, their whanau and their friends from the virus. If you are due for a vaccination, whether it is your second shot or booster, please make an appointment today. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
9,906 new community cases 69 new cases identified at the border 626 cases in hospital 2,915 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 21,057 total RATs in the last 24 hours 2,263 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 9,906 community cases, 626 hospitalisations and 10 deaths. Case numbers are continuing to decline, along with the seven-day rolling average. Today's seven-day average is 11,281, while last Friday it was 14,171. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19 and getting boosted is an important way people can protect themselves, their whanau and their friends from the virus. Despite the decline in case numbers, please continue to follow public health advice to stay at home; away from school or work if you’re feeling unwell. Another way to protect you and your whanau is to get vaccinated if you haven’t already done so. Please if you are due for a vaccination, whether it be a second dose or booster, make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 10 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the past 15 days. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 466 and the seven day rolling average of reported deaths is 16. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, two people were from the Auckland region, one from Waikato, two from the Lakes DHB area, three from the Wellington region and two from Canterbury. One was aged between 10 and 19, two in their 40s, three in their 70s, three in their 80s, and one over 90. Five were female and five were male. This is a very sad time for whanau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
This follows Medsafe’s provisional approval of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine (Comirnaty) as a booster dose for this age group. This decision means that from tomorrow, around 36,000 rangatahi aged 16 and 17 years will be eligible to receive a booster dose. They can do this by visiting any walk-in vaccination clinic around the country. A booster dose is particularly recommended for 16- and 17-year-olds who are at higher risk of severe COVID-19 symptoms and hospitalisation. This includes those who are immunocompromised or living with family members who are immunocompromised, and Māori and Pacific rangatahi. Decisions like this are another important step in helping us protect all New Zealanders, especially as we get closer to the winter months. We know that over time, immunity to the virus wanes, so getting the booster gives the best protection against COVID-19. This is also a reminder to any New Zealander who has not yet had their booster, that even if you have already had COVID-19, getting a booster at least 3 months after you test positive helps reduce the risk of being re-infected and passing it on to others.* It also reduces the chances of you becoming very ill and ending up in hospital. This decision on booster doses for our young people protects more New Zealanders from the risk of serious complications from COVID-19. The team at Medsafe who have worked hard to assess all COVID-19 vaccine applications. Medsafe follows a robust approval process to ensure all the vaccines we use in New Zealand meet acceptable standards for safety, quality and efficacy. * Note that rangatahi aged 16 and 17 can get their Pfizer booster 6 months after completing their primary course. --- Section Separator --- You can check when you are due for a booster by visiting My Covid Record. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) How to use My Covid Record If your second dose was six months ago you can get your booster by: finding a walk-in vaccination centre at Book My Vaccine, or calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 , 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. From 14 April, to allow time for technical integration of the decision into the digital booking system, this group will be able to book through Book My Vaccine. From 14 April, you’ll also be able to book for yourself or make a whānau booking (group bookings for more than one person) by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 , 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Interpretation services, and text, email and NZ Relay options for deaf and hearing impaired are available if you need them on 0800 28 29 26 , 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. There is also a specialist team for disabled people: select option 2 when calling the 0800 number.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 11-20 of 926 updates 01 Apr 2022 New Zealand will donate further Pfizer vaccines to Fiji to support paediatric vaccinations. 31 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 31 Mar 2022 New Zealand is boosting its comprehensive suite of medicines to treat COVID-19. 30 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 29 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 28 Mar 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 25 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 24 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 23 Mar 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 23 Mar 2022 New Zealand’s successful management of the Omicron outbreak and high rates of vaccination mean it is now safe to ease restrictions.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 21-30 of 926 updates 23 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 11am. 22 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 21 Mar 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 18 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 17 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 16 Mar 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 16 Mar 2022 The opening of the border to tourists has been brought forward, in a move that will help accelerate the economic recovery from COVID-19. 16 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our borders reopening. 16 Mar 2022 Nearly a million more rapid antigen tests are being made available and easier to access in schools and early learning centres from today. 15 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 31-40 of 926 updates 14 Mar 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 10 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 10 Mar 2022 Managed Isolation and Quarantine is beginning to scale down its operations as international travel starts back up. 09 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 09 Mar 2022 The isolation period for COVID-19 cases and their household contacts will be reduced from 10 to 7 days. 08 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 08 Mar 2022 Emergency ambulance services across New Zealand have recorded the highest ever call volumes to the 111 ambulance communications centres over the weekend. 07 Mar 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 07 Mar 2022 More Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) collection points are being established in some of our biggest cities to meet continued demand. 06 Mar 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 41-50 of 926 updates 05 Mar 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 04 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 03 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 03 Mar 2022 Rapid antigen tests can be ordered through a new website and picked up from a collection site. 02 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 01 Mar 2022 New Zealanders will soon be able to access a third type of COVID-19 vaccine. 01 Mar 2022 The first payments from the new COVID Support Payment have gone out today after applications opened yesterday. 01 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 28 Feb 2022 The Government is removing the self-isolation requirements for vaccinated travellers to New Zealand and enabling Kiwis to come here from the rest of the world. 28 Feb 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 51-60 of 926 updates 28 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 27 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 26 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 25 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 25 Feb 2022 Over the past 2 days, 5.2 million Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs) arrived in the country as we move to the next phase of the Omicron response. 25 Feb 2022 The new targeted COVID Support Payment (CSP) will provide additional certainty for businesses struggling with the Omicron outbreak. 25 Feb 2022 The Government is ensuring schools and kura are prepared for Omicron, with access to masks and rapid antigen tests where needed. 24 Feb 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 24 Feb 2022 Ministers have confirmed a move to the next phase of the Government’s Omicron response from 11:59pm on Thursday, 24 February. 24 Feb 2022 COVID-19 Response Minister Chris Hipkins and Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield announce the next steps in the response to the Omicron outbreak.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 881-890 of 926 updates 24 Aug 2020 Auckland will stay at Alert Level 3 until 11:59pm on 30 August 2020. The rest of the country will remain at Alert Level 2. 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 891-900 of 926 updates 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 901-910 of 926 updates 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 911-920 of 926 updates 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm.
--- Section Separator --- Displaying 921-926 of 926 updates 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Home News and data Media conferences Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. --- Section Separator --- Monday: There is no media conference. Tuesday, Wednesday: Media conference is at 1pm. Thursday, Friday: There is no media conference. We will update this page if the schedule changes. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 media conference — 7 April 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 6 April 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 4 April 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 31 March 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 30 March 2022 --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm.
Home News and data Report a breach --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic light settings) vaccination or testing requirements for workers. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic light settings) vaccination or testing requirements for workers. Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- Latest news Media conferences Data and statistics Map of COVID-19 vaccination rates in New Zealand Social media and newsletters Report a breach
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 Information about COVID-19, including what it is, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Omicron is in our community. There are 3 phases to our response. Find out what this means for you. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Omicron is in our community. There are 3 phases to our response. Find out what this means for you.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. How to self-isolate COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Post COVID-19 condition | who.int (external link) Long COVID | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 4 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue shortness of breath cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. You can find more information about long COVID: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Post COVID-19 condition | who.int (external link) Long COVID | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 Our response to Omicron --- Section Separator --- At Phase 3, the focus is on safely managing COVID-19 at home. This means we can keep our hospital beds free for people who are vulnerable and need medical treatment. There are thousands of new cases every day. Most people will self-manage at home. Health and social services will focus on families and communities that have the highest needs. You should only get a COVID-19 test if: you have symptoms, or you are a Household Contact — you live with someone who has COVID-19. Rapid antigen tests ( RATs ) are the main testing method for people with COVID-19 symptoms and Household Contacts. You can order RATs online or over the phone, to pick up at a site near you. You should record your RAT result — e ven if it is negative. You can record your result online through My Covid Record or by calling 0800 222 478 . How to get a COVID-19 test How to report your RAT result If you test positive, you will need to isolate for 7 days. If you have COVID-19 How to self-isolate If you are a Household Contact, you will need to isolate from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive, until they complete their 7 days of isolation. You will need to test on Day 3 and Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, you need to begin 7 days of isolation as a case. Household Contacts Close Contacts do not need to isolate, but you should monitor for symptoms for 10 days. Close Contacts Critical workers can keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Critical workers Self-service tools are available for people to provide information for contact tracing and case investigation. If you test positive you will be sent a text with a link to complete an online form to identify high-risk locations and people you have had contact with. The Ministry of Health will focus on supporting people who do not have access to or are not confident using technology. Bluetooth tracing continues to be used. Locations of interest will not be published during Phase 3. How contact tracing works If you are self-isolating at home, you can get help if you need essential supplies like food or medicine. If your symptoms worsen, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. They will tell you what you need to do next. Vulnerable people will have access to clinical care to help them self-isolate safely. Help if you are self isolating Financial support COVID-19 Support Payment for businesses | ird.govt.nz (external link) Cases have spread in the community, so we need to minimise and slow transmission to protect our vulnerable communities. There are some cases of COVID-19 in the community, but we continue to stamp it out. COVID-19 is still spreading in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Get your vaccine booster Vaccination for children and young people --- Section Separator --- At Phase 3, the focus is on safely managing COVID-19 at home. This means we can keep our hospital beds free for people who are vulnerable and need medical treatment. --- Section Separator --- There are thousands of new cases every day. Most people will self-manage at home. Health and social services will focus on families and communities that have the highest needs. You should only get a COVID-19 test if: you have symptoms, or you are a Household Contact — you live with someone who has COVID-19. Rapid antigen tests ( RATs ) are the main testing method for people with COVID-19 symptoms and Household Contacts. You can order RATs online or over the phone, to pick up at a site near you. You should record your RAT result — e ven if it is negative. You can record your result online through My Covid Record or by calling 0800 222 478 . How to get a COVID-19 test How to report your RAT result If you test positive, you will need to isolate for 7 days. If you have COVID-19 How to self-isolate If you are a Household Contact, you will need to isolate from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive, until they complete their 7 days of isolation. You will need to test on Day 3 and Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, you need to begin 7 days of isolation as a case. Household Contacts Close Contacts do not need to isolate, but you should monitor for symptoms for 10 days. Close Contacts Critical workers can keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Critical workers Self-service tools are available for people to provide information for contact tracing and case investigation. If you test positive you will be sent a text with a link to complete an online form to identify high-risk locations and people you have had contact with. The Ministry of Health will focus on supporting people who do not have access to or are not confident using technology. Bluetooth tracing continues to be used. Locations of interest will not be published during Phase 3. How contact tracing works If you are self-isolating at home, you can get help if you need essential supplies like food or medicine. If your symptoms worsen, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. They will tell you what you need to do next. Vulnerable people will have access to clinical care to help them self-isolate safely. Help if you are self isolating Financial support COVID-19 Support Payment for businesses | ird.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Cases have spread in the community, so we need to minimise and slow transmission to protect our vulnerable communities. --- Section Separator --- There are some cases of COVID-19 in the community, but we continue to stamp it out. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is still spreading in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Get your vaccine booster Vaccination for children and young people --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 What is COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current circulating variants of concern are: Delta — first found in India Omicron — first found in South Africa. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) Omicron was first classified as a variant of concern by WHO in November 2021. It has spread worldwide and is now the major variant in many countries. It is more transmissible than previous variants of the virus, including Delta. Omicron, like other variants, continues to change. There are now 2 main sub-variants — BA.1 and BA.2. Both of these are circulating in the community, with BA.2 more dominant. We have a very effective system in place for identifying new variants in New Zealand. The possibility of new variants like Omicron is why we continue to perform whole-genome sequencing on cases from overseas and those not linked to a community cluster. COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Although Omicron is a new variant, we have already learned a lot from experiences overseas. Compared to Delta, Omicron: is more transmissible causes similar symptoms, but because we have a highly vaccinated population, many people may not have any symptoms, though could still pass the virus on to others has resulted in many more people being hospitalised than at any other time in the pandemic. This is because Omicron can cause many more infections over a short period of time can still cause severe illness and even death, especially in people who are at high risk of severe outcomes such as older people and those who have underlying health conditions. COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 COVID-19 causes 2 major issues that cause harm when someone is infected — a viral attack on the body and in some cases an immune reaction. Studies for new treatments cover both issues and concentrate on 3 areas. Antiviral drugs limiting the ability of the virus to thrive in the body. Medicines that calm the immune system over-reaction prompted in some patients. Antibody treatments that help the body fight the virus. The Ministry of Health has updates on pharmaceutical treatments for COVID-19. COVID-19 Science Updates | health.govt.nz (external link) Pharmac is funding appropriate COVID-19 treatments for New Zealanders. The agency decides which medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand. Pharmac has secured treatments for COVID-19, including: Baricitinib Ronapreve Remdesivir Tocilizumab Paxlovid Molnupiravir. Medsafe will assess these medicines before treatment for COVID-19. Find more information on Pharmac's website: Pharmac is funding COVID-19 treatments | pharmac.govt.nz (external link) Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy with the COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic lights) is for New Zealanders to connect with friends and whānau, while also protecting everyone from serious illness. We do this through: testing anyone with symptoms hygiene measures such as washing our hands and wearing a face mask testing and tracing potential contacts isolating cases and their contacts. Traffic lights High rates of vaccination is New Zealand’s key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19, and central to the settings in the framework. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: symptomatic people in the community asymptomatic testing of workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | esr.cri.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. --- Section Separator --- It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current circulating variants of concern are: Delta — first found in India Omicron — first found in South Africa. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) Omicron was first classified as a variant of concern by WHO in November 2021. It has spread worldwide and is now the major variant in many countries. It is more transmissible than previous variants of the virus, including Delta. Omicron, like other variants, continues to change. There are now 2 main sub-variants — BA.1 and BA.2. Both of these are circulating in the community, with BA.2 more dominant. We have a very effective system in place for identifying new variants in New Zealand. The possibility of new variants like Omicron is why we continue to perform whole-genome sequencing on cases from overseas and those not linked to a community cluster. COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Although Omicron is a new variant, we have already learned a lot from experiences overseas. Compared to Delta, Omicron: is more transmissible causes similar symptoms, but because we have a highly vaccinated population, many people may not have any symptoms, though could still pass the virus on to others has resulted in many more people being hospitalised than at any other time in the pandemic. This is because Omicron can cause many more infections over a short period of time can still cause severe illness and even death, especially in people who are at high risk of severe outcomes such as older people and those who have underlying health conditions. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 causes 2 major issues that cause harm when someone is infected — a viral attack on the body and in some cases an immune reaction. Studies for new treatments cover both issues and concentrate on 3 areas. Antiviral drugs limiting the ability of the virus to thrive in the body. Medicines that calm the immune system over-reaction prompted in some patients. Antibody treatments that help the body fight the virus. The Ministry of Health has updates on pharmaceutical treatments for COVID-19. COVID-19 Science Updates | health.govt.nz (external link) Pharmac is funding appropriate COVID-19 treatments for New Zealanders. The agency decides which medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand. Pharmac has secured treatments for COVID-19, including: Baricitinib Ronapreve Remdesivir Tocilizumab Paxlovid Molnupiravir. Medsafe will assess these medicines before treatment for COVID-19. Find more information on Pharmac's website: Pharmac is funding COVID-19 treatments | pharmac.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy with the COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic lights) is for New Zealanders to connect with friends and whānau, while also protecting everyone from serious illness. We do this through: testing anyone with symptoms hygiene measures such as washing our hands and wearing a face mask testing and tracing potential contacts isolating cases and their contacts. Traffic lights High rates of vaccination is New Zealand’s key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19, and central to the settings in the framework. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: symptomatic people in the community asymptomatic testing of workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | esr.cri.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples, disabled people and youth. --- Section Separator --- Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. A lot of stuff changed when COVID-19 turned up in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out what it means for you and the things that are important in your life. --- Section Separator --- Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. A lot of stuff changed when COVID-19 turned up in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out what it means for you and the things that are important in your life.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities The COVID downlow Basics of COVID-19 Do these easy things to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19, so that we all get back to doing the things we love. --- Section Separator --- There are easy steps we can all take to help keep us healthy, like getting vaccinated, and keeping up healthy habits. It helps to understand why we're all doing this: to protect ourselves and everyone around us.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities The COVID downlow Education Different traffic light settings mean different things for schools, universities and other training places. --- Section Separator --- You might need to study at home if you are self-isolating, waiting for a COVID-19 test result or cannot attend in person. Being at home can make it hard to focus on school work, especially when everyone else is at home too. Studying can be stressful, but there are techniques you can use to cope. The Lowdown has advice. Study stress | The Lowdown (external link) You can get help and tips about preparing for NCEA Maths, Sciences and English exams at StudyIt. You can post an NCEA exam question on its discussion forum and a teacher/facilitator will respond. StudyIt | studyit.govt.nz (external link) Auckland University has tips for studying at home, including staying active, keeping in touch with friends, and making to-do lists. Tips for studying at home | Auckland University (external link)
This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. Popular topics What happens if you get COVID-19 Get a COVID-19 test Get RATs delivered If you cannot wear a face mask If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 About the traffic light system Get a booster --- Section Separator --- For testing or vaccination advice, call the Disability Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 . If you are self-isolating and need food or other essential items, call the COVID-19 welfare phone line on 0800 512 337 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- You may need a test if: you have symptoms of COVID-19 you live with someone who has COVID-19 you are travelling you job needs you to take tests. You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. You can order RATs online or over the phone to use at home. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. You will need access to a mobile phone to order online. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. Order RATs online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Order over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. Find your nearest testing centre: COVID-19 testing sites | Healthpoint (external link) Talk to your doctor or residential care provider. You can also get advice from the Disability Healthline. Call 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 . If you have mobility or other accessibility challenges and are unable to leave your home to get to a collection site, you can arrange to have a RAT kit delivered to you. Free call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . If you have done the test yourself, or a support person has done it for you, record the result online or over the phone. Online: My Covid Record (external link) Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with the latest, trusted information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so that you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) You will need to self-isolate for 7 days. This means you must stay at home and also try to avoid contact with people you live with. The people you live with will also need to self-isolate. Start counting from Day 0, which is the first day you had symptoms or when you got your positive test result (whichever came first). Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 7 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. If your regular support worker or carer gets COVID-19, they will need to stay home and isolate. This means you may need to have someone else support you with your care. What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. --- Section Separator --- A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. You can get a booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course you are aged 16 or 17 and it has been 6 months since you completed your primary course. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. To book your vaccination or get advice: call the Disability Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 text free to 8988 email accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz --- Section Separator --- Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. --- Section Separator --- Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. --- Section Separator --- Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Financial support Support is available if you need it when self-isolating because of COVID-19. Help when you are self-isolating If you test positive, let your support provider know that you have COVID-19 so they can put protective measures in place. Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow appropriate infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) Call the Ministry of Social Development's free COVID-19 Welfare line on 0800 512 337 . They can help you with: food and essential items mobile data so you can keep in contact with friends and whānau support for personal care or daily tasks talking to your employer if you are worried about your leave or pay mental health support support with family or sexual violence. Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- We are protecting Aoteroa New Zealand from COVID-19 using a system called the 'traffic lights'. Its official name is the COVID-19 Protection Framework. My Vaccine Passes are no longer required. Some businesses may choose to keep using them. You do not need to scan in when visiting a business or venue. There is a 200-person limit for indoor gatherings and events. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for disabled people If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If your support worker gets COVID-19, the disability support organisation they are from is responsible for finding a replacement. In some cases, they may only be able to provide essential services while your regular support worker recovers. Your support provider will check in with you about any changes. If you would prefer that a family member or friend support you instead, discuss this with your disability support organisation. If you usually get support from a family member or friend, or you individually contract support people, make a plan for alternate support in case they get COVID-19. Options could include: another family member or friend providing care for you over this time a paid carer to be arranged through a care support agency contacting your local Needs Assessment Service Co-ordination service (NASC). If you receive disability funded support, they will put you in contact with a disability support provider. Needs Assessment and Service Coordination services | health.govt.nz (external link) If you live in the same home as your carer, and they are well enough to continue providing care, they can do so. They will need appropriate infection prevention control and personal protective equipment. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) If you receive support in your home, it is important to have a support plan. This should include your important health information and care routines. If your regular carer becomes unwell and you need emergency care, this plan can be shared with the new carer. This means your care and support can continue safely . Your disability support provider can help you create a plan. You can also use the emergency care planning tools available on the Carers New Zealand website. Emergency care planning tools | carers.net.nz (external link) There are a few things to consider, specific to COVID-19: tolerance with medication tolerance around needles, etc tolerance around masks and nasal prongs anticipated staffing/supervision requirements. tolerance with medication tolerance around needles, etc tolerance around masks and nasal prongs anticipated staffing/supervision requirements. --- Section Separator --- If your support worker gets COVID-19, the disability support organisation they are from is responsible for finding a replacement. In some cases, they may only be able to provide essential services while your regular support worker recovers. Your support provider will check in with you about any changes. If you would prefer that a family member or friend support you instead, discuss this with your disability support organisation. --- Section Separator --- If you usually get support from a family member or friend, or you individually contract support people, make a plan for alternate support in case they get COVID-19. Options could include: another family member or friend providing care for you over this time a paid carer to be arranged through a care support agency contacting your local Needs Assessment Service Co-ordination service (NASC). If you receive disability funded support, they will put you in contact with a disability support provider. Needs Assessment and Service Coordination services | health.govt.nz (external link) If you live in the same home as your carer, and they are well enough to continue providing care, they can do so. They will need appropriate infection prevention control and personal protective equipment. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you receive support in your home, it is important to have a support plan. This should include your important health information and care routines. If your regular carer becomes unwell and you need emergency care, this plan can be shared with the new carer. This means your care and support can continue safely . Your disability support provider can help you create a plan. You can also use the emergency care planning tools available on the Carers New Zealand website. Emergency care planning tools | carers.net.nz (external link) There are a few things to consider, specific to COVID-19: tolerance with medication tolerance around needles, etc tolerance around masks and nasal prongs anticipated staffing/supervision requirements. tolerance with medication tolerance around needles, etc tolerance around masks and nasal prongs anticipated staffing/supervision requirements. --- Section Separator --- Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 The COVID downlow
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori --- Section Separator --- From 11:59pm on 4 April 2022, there will be no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Until 4 April, where My Vaccine Passes are not used, the current restrictions remain — but after this time, the new capacity limits will apply to everyone. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Government vaccine mandates for some workers will be removed. Workers still covered by government vaccine mandates include health and disability sector workers, prison staff, and border and MIQ workers. New Zealand is at the Red setting. The next review of the traffic light settings is on 4 April. It will review what colour each area of New Zealand sits in. Changes to the traffic light system --- Section Separator --- The best way to protect you, your whānau and your community from COVID-19 is to get vaccinated. Karawhiua provides trusted and up-to-date information on the vaccine for whānau and Māori communities. Be a doer! Karawhiua (external link) --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- At Red, there are restrictions on indoor gatherings at marae to help limit the spread of COVID-19, and protect the safety and wellbeing of whānau, hapū, and iwi . It is up to the leaders of the marae to decide whether to allow gatherings and whether gatherings are held inside or outside. Advice for marae at Red At Orange, g atherings at marae can go ahead. There are no restrictions on indoor or outdoor gatherings. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. Gatherings at Orange --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. Check out free services and resources Funding and support is available. Find more information from Te Puni Kōkiri. Funding and support | tpk.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ruthie was 7 months hapū, with her baby Hope, when she contracted COVID-19 last year at a tangihanga. She shares her experience of being the first hapū māmā with COVID-19 in Aotearoa and her thoughts on the vaccine. Ruthie’s story is part of the Te Puni Kōkiri-led Karawhiua campaign which encourages whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities to make an informed choice about getting vaccinated against COVID-19. Watch Ruthie’s full story at Karawhiua (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits COVID-19 is in the community. To slow the spread and continue to protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. --- Section Separator --- The Government no longer requires My Vaccine Pass to be used to access businesses, events and services. Businesses can still choose to require My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry if there are health and safety reasons for doing so. Some workers are still required to be vaccinated. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- Face masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. They are useful in poorly ventilated indoor areas and when you are around people you do not know. They stop particles spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This is particularly useful when someone has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. You must wear a face mask in some locations. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Elaine's story: Protecting her father Kiahan's story: Protecting his Nan Chelsea's story: Protecting her son --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you should get a test. You must stay home until you get a negative result. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you are helping to keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. COVID-19 symptoms How to get a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. You should wash your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth, if your hands are not clean. Using hand sanitiser is also effective at killing germs and viruses. It destroys the protective bubble of the virus, but only if the sanitiser has at least 60% alcohol. Sanitiser is also effective in reducing the number and type of germs on your hands. --- Section Separator --- Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash your hands thoroughly. This will catch the droplets and keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. --- Section Separator --- Clean surfaces regularly. This includes frequently touched items like door handles, light switches and phones. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- The risk of becoming infected with COVID-19 increases the closer you are to a person and the longer you are close to that person. The risk is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. The risk is lower outside when there are fewer people, and when you are further away from others. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. If air conditioning is used, make sure the system is regularly maintained. Find out more about reducing the risk of COVID-19 through ventilation | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are not required to maintain physical distance from others in the traffic light system. But it is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it is in the community. --- Section Separator --- As Omicron is now widespread, we no longer need to contact trace individual cases. This means you do not need to keep a record of where you have been for contact tracing purposes. In case you do test positive for COVID-19, it is still a good idea to: keep track of people you have been with record any high-risk locations you have visited, for example hospitals or aged care facilities keep Bluetooth tracing turned on. We encourage you to not remove the NZ COVID Tracer app from your phone just yet. Bluetooth tracing is still being used to notify people if they have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) The contact tracing system may need to return if another variant of concern arrives in New Zealand. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can get a booster if it has been at least 3 months since your second dose. Vaccination remains one of the best tools in the fight against COVID-19. Even if you have had COVID-19, getting a booster once enough time has passed gives you another a layer of protection from the virus. Being up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccinations also helps protect people who are more at risk of becoming seriously ill from the virus and people who cannot be vaccinated such as babies and children under 5 years old. COVID-19 vaccines
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Keep track of where you have been It is important to keep track of high-risk locations you have been at and who you have been with, so you know who to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- As Omicron is now widespread, we no longer need to contact trace individual cases. This means you do not need to maintain records for contact tracing purposes. However, if you test positive for COVID-19, you need to tell the people you have been in contact with while infectious that you have COVID-19. This can include others you live with, your colleagues or workplace, friends, or school. Even if your contacts do not have to isolate, they should still be given the information so they can make decisions for themselves. --- Section Separator --- It is still a good idea to: keep track of people you have been with record any high-risk locations you have visited, for example hospitals or aged care facilities keep Bluetooth tracing turned on in the NZ COVID Tracer app. If you test positive, you will be sent a link to an online form, where you can share: contact details of your contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited Bluetooth data from the NZ COVID Tracer app. This information can help stop the spread of the virus in high-risk locations and protect our vulnerable communities. --- Section Separator --- You can continue to use the NZ COVID Tracer app. We recommend you keep the NZ COVID Tracer app on your phone. We may bring back the contact tracing system if another variant of concern arrives in New Zealand. NZ COVID Tracer app | health.govt.nz (external link) You can also use the NZ COVID Tracer app to find key links to: request free RATs so you can test for COVID-19 at home if you are unwell record your RAT result book your booster dose find information if you test positive or are a Household Contact. To access these links, select ‘Dashboard’, and open the ‘more info’ tab. You should keep your Bluetooth tracing turned on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) How privacy is protected in the NZ COVID Tracer app | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] A simplified version is available for disabled communities: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, simplified [PDF, 2.6 MB] You can also order copies of the NZ COVID Tracer booklet, if you cannot print your own. You also order booklets in other languages. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) email Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health is no longer publishing locations of interest. Case investigations are focused on high-risk exposures and Household Contacts.
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. --- Section Separator --- As a general rule, you should wear a face mask whenever you are indoors. The exceptions are at your home or your place of work if it is not public facing. Your employer may encourage you to wear a face mask even if your job is not public facing. When it is hard to physically distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face mask. Everyone must wear a mask that is attached to the face by loops around the ears or head. This means people can no longer use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts as face coverings. Types of face masks You do not need to wear a mask when exercising. Some people are unable to wear face masks for a wide range or reasons, many of which are not visible. Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport, this includes Cook Strait Ferries but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services at indoor arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport if you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above on public transport and Ministry of Education funded school transport in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public venues or facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic in an indoor setting at schools, for example classrooms and assemblies. This includes visitors, workers, and students and teachers in Years 4 to 13 inside at tertiary education facilities when visiting a licensed early childhood service at food and drink businesses, for example cafes, bars and restaurants — if you are seated indoors. You can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink at close-proximity businesses, for example hairdressers, barbers, beauty salons at an indoor event at an indoor gathering, except when you have exclusive use of the venue or defined space when visiting the indoor area of a court or tribunal — unless the judicial officer does not require them at premises operated by local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a health care service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport, this includes Cook Strait Ferries but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services at indoor arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport if you are aged 12 years or over on Ministry of Education funded school transport and public transport in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic visiting the indoor area of a court or tribunal — unless the judicial officer does not require them premises operated by local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a healthcare service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility. --- Section Separator --- You are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings. --- Section Separator --- Some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face mask. There are also some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. Find a list of exemptions — where a face mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Some people must wear a face mask when they are working with members of the public, customers or clients while they are at work — unless they are exempt. You must wear a face mask if you work at a gathering — it does not need to be a medical grade one. The places where you must wear a medical grade face mask include: in a food and drink business or service in a close-proximity business, for example if you are a hairdresser in a gym or indoor recreation facility at an event as a teacher of students in years 4 to 13. You must wear a face mask if you work at a gathering — it does not need to be a medical grade one. The places where you must wear a medical grade face mask include: in a food and drink business or service in a close-proximity business, for example if you are a hairdresser at an event. You do not need to wear face masks at work at Green. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You do not need to wear a face mask in non-public facing workplaces. However, employers can apply their own policies for mask use. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has advice about the requirements for face masks in different sectors. Face mask requirement for workers and customers | business.govt.nz (external link) The Ministry of Health has information about the use of personal protective equipment (PPE) in a health and disability care setting. PPE in health and disability care settings | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask How to make a face mask --- Section Separator --- You can still make and wear fabric face masks. Fabric face masks should have at least 3 layers and are effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. They must be attached to your head with loops around your ears or head — you cannot use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts that have been pulled up over your face. You must also make sure your face mask covers your nose and mouth properly. When you must wear a face mask Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Moisture-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Optional: Swap a cotton piece of fabric for a non-woven fabric like spunbond to enhance filtration, 19.5 x 19 cm Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. To enhance filtration of your face mask, you can swap the inner layer to use spunbond. Cut out a rectangle from the moisture-resistant fabric for the outer layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take the outer piece of fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of fabric together (with the spunbond in the middle, if using). Make sure the moisture-resistant fabric that will be on the outside of your face mask is turned inwards here. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face mask in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. --- Section Separator --- You can still make and wear fabric face masks. Fabric face masks should have at least 3 layers and are effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. They must be attached to your head with loops around your ears or head — you cannot use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts that have been pulled up over your face. You must also make sure your face mask covers your nose and mouth properly. When you must wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Moisture-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Optional: Swap a cotton piece of fabric for a non-woven fabric like spunbond to enhance filtration, 19.5 x 19 cm Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. To enhance filtration of your face mask, you can swap the inner layer to use spunbond. Cut out a rectangle from the moisture-resistant fabric for the outer layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take the outer piece of fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of fabric together (with the spunbond in the middle, if using). Make sure the moisture-resistant fabric that will be on the outside of your face mask is turned inwards here. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face mask in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks Keep track of where you have been
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. In general, you should wear a face mask whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by particles, so masks are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. by children under 12 — except at Red for those aged 8 years or over or in Year 4 or above when indoors at school and on public and school transport at an indoor gathering if there is exclusive use of the venue or defined space, for example weddings or funerals on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry. you are outdoors you are exercising it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face mask unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind or has a disability which makes it hard to have effective communication you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. We know face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. You still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can request a Communication Card from the Ministry of Health. You can show the card to transport operators, retailers and service providers. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Communication Card if you cannot wear a face mask — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Request a Communication Card (external link) Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face mask. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, make sure you keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. In general, you should wear a face mask whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by particles, so masks are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. by children under 12 — except at Red for those aged 8 years or over or in Year 4 or above when indoors at school and on public and school transport at an indoor gathering if there is exclusive use of the venue or defined space, for example weddings or funerals on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry. you are outdoors you are exercising it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face mask unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind or has a disability which makes it hard to have effective communication you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. --- Section Separator --- We know face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. You still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can request a Communication Card from the Ministry of Health. You can show the card to transport operators, retailers and service providers. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Communication Card if you cannot wear a face mask — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Request a Communication Card (external link) --- Section Separator --- Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face mask. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, make sure you keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks Keep track of where you have been
Home Prepare and stay safe Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Getting through together | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) You can also find a list of tools and information on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Mental health and wellbeing resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | dia.govt.nz (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Getting through together | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) You can also find a list of tools and information on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Mental health and wellbeing resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | dia.govt.nz (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Prepare and stay safe People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if you: have compromised immunity have a high-risk medical condition are older are an infant under the age of 1 month are a child under the age of 2 who was born premature (less than 37 weeks) are a child with multiple chronic conditions. Our restrictions have eased, but we still need to keep up healthy habits to keep ourselves and our whānau safe. Our high vaccination rates mean we can slowly start to focus on returning to a normal way of life. For some people, the easing of restrictions can be stressful — especially if we have friends or whānau who are vulnerable. It is okay to feel scared or anxious as we adjust to the new settings. You can decide what additional measures suit you best. Let whānau, friends, neighbours and colleagues know what they can do to support you. If you are worried, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Get your booster if you are eligible. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition. Keep a safe distance away from people you do not live with — except for your carer or support workers. Wear a face mask whenever you leave home. If you have visitors at home, ask them to wear a face mask. Ask friends or whānau who do not live with you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT) before they visit. Stay at home if you are unwell and get tested if you have symptoms — even if they are mild. Try to avoid large crowds — if the supermarket is busy, try again later, or use other options like click and collect. If possible, arrange to meet with friends and whānau outside. If it makes you feel more comfortable, you can ask them to wear a face mask. If you are gathering indoors, let fresh air in to reduce the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19. Even though the number of people who can gather indoors has increased, organisers still need to follow public health guidelines to keep everyone safe. You could ask the organisers for a livestream option, if you feel more comfortable participating from home. Stay connected — if you are not ready to start socialising in large groups, find other ways to keep in touch with close friends and whānau. Even if you have had COVID-19, you should still get any COVID-19 vaccinations you are eligible for. We recommend you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. If you are at high risk of getting seriously ill if you do test positive for COVID-19 again, we recommend you talk to your doctor or health professional for advice on the best timing for your vaccinations. You may be able to receive your vaccination sooner. As restrictions ease, your employer may ask you to return to the workplace. We encourage you to talk to your employer about flexible working arrangements. If you have been working from home for a long time, it can take a while to adjust back to working in an office or other workplace. Let your colleagues and employer know if there is something they can do to make working easier and safer for you. If you work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working. If your child is immunocompromised, or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk to their school or kura about whether changes can be made at their school. The best way to protect your tamariki is by getting them vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination advice for 5 to 11 year olds You can support friends and whānau by: meeting outside where there is better ventilation. You may want to wear a face mask if it is difficult to keep a safe distance away isolating away from them if you test positive for COVID-19, or are unwell offering to drop off groceries or essential supplies not visiting them if you are unwell keeping in touch with them, and checking up on their physical and mental wellbeing checking if their aged residential care facility has extra measures in place for visitors being kind and showing compassion for others. Give other people space, and keep a safe distance away. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support You can find support to access food and other essential supplies, and if you need help with accommodation. COVID-19 support Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- You are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if you: have compromised immunity have a high-risk medical condition are older are an infant under the age of 1 month are a child under the age of 2 who was born premature (less than 37 weeks) are a child with multiple chronic conditions. --- Section Separator --- Our restrictions have eased, but we still need to keep up healthy habits to keep ourselves and our whānau safe. Our high vaccination rates mean we can slowly start to focus on returning to a normal way of life. For some people, the easing of restrictions can be stressful — especially if we have friends or whānau who are vulnerable. It is okay to feel scared or anxious as we adjust to the new settings. You can decide what additional measures suit you best. Let whānau, friends, neighbours and colleagues know what they can do to support you. If you are worried, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Get your booster if you are eligible. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition. Keep a safe distance away from people you do not live with — except for your carer or support workers. Wear a face mask whenever you leave home. If you have visitors at home, ask them to wear a face mask. Ask friends or whānau who do not live with you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT) before they visit. Stay at home if you are unwell and get tested if you have symptoms — even if they are mild. Try to avoid large crowds — if the supermarket is busy, try again later, or use other options like click and collect. If possible, arrange to meet with friends and whānau outside. If it makes you feel more comfortable, you can ask them to wear a face mask. If you are gathering indoors, let fresh air in to reduce the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19. Even though the number of people who can gather indoors has increased, organisers still need to follow public health guidelines to keep everyone safe. You could ask the organisers for a livestream option, if you feel more comfortable participating from home. Stay connected — if you are not ready to start socialising in large groups, find other ways to keep in touch with close friends and whānau. Even if you have had COVID-19, you should still get any COVID-19 vaccinations you are eligible for. We recommend you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. If you are at high risk of getting seriously ill if you do test positive for COVID-19 again, we recommend you talk to your doctor or health professional for advice on the best timing for your vaccinations. You may be able to receive your vaccination sooner. --- Section Separator --- As restrictions ease, your employer may ask you to return to the workplace. We encourage you to talk to your employer about flexible working arrangements. If you have been working from home for a long time, it can take a while to adjust back to working in an office or other workplace. Let your colleagues and employer know if there is something they can do to make working easier and safer for you. If you work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working. If your child is immunocompromised, or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk to their school or kura about whether changes can be made at their school. The best way to protect your tamariki is by getting them vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination advice for 5 to 11 year olds --- Section Separator --- You can support friends and whānau by: meeting outside where there is better ventilation. You may want to wear a face mask if it is difficult to keep a safe distance away isolating away from them if you test positive for COVID-19, or are unwell offering to drop off groceries or essential supplies not visiting them if you are unwell keeping in touch with them, and checking up on their physical and mental wellbeing checking if their aged residential care facility has extra measures in place for visitors being kind and showing compassion for others. Give other people space, and keep a safe distance away. --- Section Separator --- There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support You can find support to access food and other essential supplies, and if you need help with accommodation. COVID-19 support Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Prepare and stay safe Preparing to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- Make a plan with your whānau if you need to isolate. Set up a su pport network. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything dropped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. Make sure you have basic medical supplies like pain relief , a thermometer and your regular medications to help manage your symptoms. Plan for who can safely deliver essential supplies — like food and groceries , if you have to isolate. (external link) If you or someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, all of you must isolate for 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket , or to pick up essential supplies , like medication . Y ou will need to have a plan for someone outside your household to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you all need to self-isolate. Download COVID-19: Our isolation plan [PDF, 176 KB] Make a plan for how you will get food and essential supplies. You may want to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs, or you can use a food delivery service. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything dropped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. If you need support while you are self-isolating Put together a hygiene kit — with things like hand sanitiser, gloves, face masks, cleaning products and extra rubbish bags. If you have people in your household who need extra support, make a plan for their care. If you have shared custody arrangements, talk to your child’s other parent or caregiver to decide what will happen. Looking after your physical and mental wellbeing is important while you are at home. Try to think of ways you can get fresh air, or do some exercise. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood — but you cannot use any shared facilities, like a public swimming pool. Keep a safe distance from others when exercising. Looking after your mental wellbeing Check that you have basic medical supplies — like pain relief, a thermometer , nasal spray, lozenges and your regular medications to help manage your symptoms. If you are isolating and need medicines, you can contact your doctor or local pharmacy to arrange medication to be delivered to you, or ask friends and whānau to collect it for you. Make a list of whānau information — include NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medications or medical supplies each person will need. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, afterhours, and any support agencies. Talk to your employer and child’s school so you and your tamariki are set up for working and learning from home. If you cannot work from home, talk to your employer about your pay and sick leave entitlements. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) Everyone ’ s living situation is different — you may be in a large family, living with flatm ates, or you may live alone. For some people, it will be easier to limit contact with other household members if they have access to their own bathroom and bedroom . Talk with the people you live with to make a plan for how you will manage any shared spaces . Share your plan with wider whānau and neighbours and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. How to self-isolate Make a list of activities you and your wh ānau can do to help pass the time . Have a plan with friends and whānau to stay connected online , so you do not have to isolate alone. Check you have enough pet food and supplies. If you are unable to look after a pet, ask someone else to care for them while you are isolating. Note. This video refers to a COVID-19 Readiness Checklist which has now been revised to be the COVID-19: Isolation Plan. Work out how to let people know your household is isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Make a plan with your whānau if you need to isolate. Set up a su pport network. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything dropped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. Make sure you have basic medical supplies like pain relief , a thermometer and your regular medications to help manage your symptoms. Plan for who can safely deliver essential supplies — like food and groceries , if you have to isolate. (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you or someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, all of you must isolate for 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket , or to pick up essential supplies , like medication . Y ou will need to have a plan for someone outside your household to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you all need to self-isolate. Download COVID-19: Our isolation plan [PDF, 176 KB] --- Section Separator --- Make a plan for how you will get food and essential supplies. You may want to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs, or you can use a food delivery service. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything dropped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. If you need support while you are self-isolating Put together a hygiene kit — with things like hand sanitiser, gloves, face masks, cleaning products and extra rubbish bags. If you have people in your household who need extra support, make a plan for their care. If you have shared custody arrangements, talk to your child’s other parent or caregiver to decide what will happen. Looking after your physical and mental wellbeing is important while you are at home. Try to think of ways you can get fresh air, or do some exercise. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood — but you cannot use any shared facilities, like a public swimming pool. Keep a safe distance from others when exercising. Looking after your mental wellbeing Check that you have basic medical supplies — like pain relief, a thermometer , nasal spray, lozenges and your regular medications to help manage your symptoms. If you are isolating and need medicines, you can contact your doctor or local pharmacy to arrange medication to be delivered to you, or ask friends and whānau to collect it for you. Make a list of whānau information — include NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medications or medical supplies each person will need. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, afterhours, and any support agencies. Talk to your employer and child’s school so you and your tamariki are set up for working and learning from home. If you cannot work from home, talk to your employer about your pay and sick leave entitlements. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) Everyone ’ s living situation is different — you may be in a large family, living with flatm ates, or you may live alone. For some people, it will be easier to limit contact with other household members if they have access to their own bathroom and bedroom . Talk with the people you live with to make a plan for how you will manage any shared spaces . Share your plan with wider whānau and neighbours and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. How to self-isolate Make a list of activities you and your wh ānau can do to help pass the time . Have a plan with friends and whānau to stay connected online , so you do not have to isolate alone. Check you have enough pet food and supplies. If you are unable to look after a pet, ask someone else to care for them while you are isolating. --- Section Separator --- Note. This video refers to a COVID-19 Readiness Checklist which has now been revised to be the COVID-19: Isolation Plan. --- Section Separator --- Work out how to let people know your household is isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Prepare and stay safe When to call for help --- Section Separator --- Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency, and there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. If it is not an emergency, but you need advice about your symptoms or general health advice about COVID-19, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Heathline is available 24 hours a day. Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face mask. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. Most people who get COVID-19 should be able to manage their symptoms safely at home. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. If you or someone in your household: has trouble breathing, or is experiencing shortness of breath has severe chest pain feels faint or dizzy or becomes unconscious Call 111 immediately. Tell them you or someone in your household has COVID-19 when you call, so the paramedics can care for you safely. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. If you need medical advice about your symptoms, or other health advice while you and your household are isolating, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Healthline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly. Maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance and wear a face mask, if possible. If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link) If you are isolating at home because of a public health order, you need to be prepared if there is a natural disaster. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. Include face masks and other supplies, for example hand sanitiser, in your emergency grab bag. Move to a safe location and stay there until you get more advice. Immediate safety​ overrides COVID-19 isolation requirements. As soon as you and your whānau are safe, try to maintain physical distancing wherever possible. Keep a record of where you have been and who you have been with while you have been moving to safety — health professionals will need this information if there is an identified case of COVID-19. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency, and there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. If it is not an emergency, but you need advice about your symptoms or general health advice about COVID-19, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Heathline is available 24 hours a day. --- Section Separator --- Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency, follow the usual emergency guidelines or advice from emergency authorities. Your safety comes first. Once you are safe, then take precautions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as physically distancing or wearing a face mask. If there is a threat to your life or property, always dial 111 and ask for Police, Fire or Ambulance. --- Section Separator --- Most people who get COVID-19 should be able to manage their symptoms safely at home. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. If you or someone in your household: has trouble breathing, or is experiencing shortness of breath has severe chest pain feels faint or dizzy or becomes unconscious Call 111 immediately. Tell them you or someone in your household has COVID-19 when you call, so the paramedics can care for you safely. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. If you need medical advice about your symptoms, or other health advice while you and your household are isolating, call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Healthline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. --- Section Separator --- If your smoke detector or fire alarm goes off, keep calm and follow your normal escape plan. If there is an immediate threat to your safety, evacuate calmly and quickly. Maintain physical distancing where possible. Once at your evacuation area maintain physical distance and wear a face mask, if possible. --- Section Separator --- If you feel an earthquake, drop, cover and hold during the shaking. If you are near the coast, remember 'long or strong, get gone'. If you are advised by your local Civil Defence authorities to evacuate because of a tsunami, flood, fire or other emergency, follow the evacuation advice you are given. If you are told to evacuate, you should move immediately. You must not stay at home. If you need to leave your house, take your grab bag with you. Maintain physical distance from others at all times if you can, and if it is safe to do so. Information about what to do in an emergency | getready.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are isolating at home because of a public health order, you need to be prepared if there is a natural disaster. Here are some tips on how to prepare and follow COVID-19 requirements if you need to evacuate your home. Include face masks and other supplies, for example hand sanitiser, in your emergency grab bag. Move to a safe location and stay there until you get more advice. Immediate safety​ overrides COVID-19 isolation requirements. As soon as you and your whānau are safe, try to maintain physical distancing wherever possible. Keep a record of where you have been and who you have been with while you have been moving to safety — health professionals will need this information if there is an identified case of COVID-19. If an emergency event takes place but you are not at immediate risk, please stay home wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Testing and tracing Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. What you need to know When you should get tested Household Contacts Keep track of where you have been Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. Information about contact tracing and how it allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. What to do if you have tested positive for COVID-19 or are a probable case. --- Section Separator --- Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. Information about contact tracing and how it allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. What to do if you have tested positive for COVID-19 or are a probable case.
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, what you need to do to support contact tracing if you test positive, and receiving alerts from the NZ COVID Tracer app. Find out what different types of contacts need to do while we are in Phase 3 of our Omicron response. You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Find out what you need to do. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate. Find out what a critical service is, who is eligible to be a critical worker and where you can find more information about the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Find out what you need to do if you live with someone who is waiting for a test result, self-isolating or a Close Contact. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, what you need to do to support contact tracing if you test positive, and receiving alerts from the NZ COVID Tracer app. Find out what different types of contacts need to do while we are in Phase 3 of our Omicron response. You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Find out what you need to do. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate. Find out what a critical service is, who is eligible to be a critical worker and where you can find more information about the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Find out what you need to do if you live with someone who is waiting for a test result, self-isolating or a Close Contact.
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate or get a test. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if any develop, get a test. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. You are a Close Contact in the following situations: If you have been close (within 1.5 metres) to someone who has COVID-19 for more than 15 minutes, and they were not wearing a face mask or not wearing it properly. If you have had direct contact with a person who has COVID-19. For example, kissing, or if the person coughed or sneezed on you. If you spent time in an indoor space with someone who has COVID-19 for more than 1 hour and at least one of the following. They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts What type of contact are you? If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you may be notified by: the person who has COVID-19 a text message or call from the National Investigation and Tracing Centre (NITC) an orange Bluetooth alert on the NZ COVID Tracer app dashboard your employer or school. You do not need to self-isolate if you are a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if you develop any, get a test. COVID-19 symptoms Our response to Omicron — Phase 3 --- Section Separator --- You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate or get a test. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if any develop, get a test. --- Section Separator --- You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. You are a Close Contact in the following situations: If you have been close (within 1.5 metres) to someone who has COVID-19 for more than 15 minutes, and they were not wearing a face mask or not wearing it properly. If you have had direct contact with a person who has COVID-19. For example, kissing, or if the person coughed or sneezed on you. If you spent time in an indoor space with someone who has COVID-19 for more than 1 hour and at least one of the following. They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts What type of contact are you? --- Section Separator --- If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you may be notified by: the person who has COVID-19 a text message or call from the National Investigation and Tracing Centre (NITC) an orange Bluetooth alert on the NZ COVID Tracer app dashboard your employer or school. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to self-isolate if you are a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if you develop any, get a test. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Our response to Omicron — Phase 3 --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works What type of contact are you? Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers Household members
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. What type of contact are you? If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have details of your Household Contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited any welfare needs you may have. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. How to upload your digital diary | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728. It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your approximate arrival and departure time If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. More information about NZ COVID Tracer alerts | health.govt.nz (external link) You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. What type of contact are you? --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have details of your Household Contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited any welfare needs you may have. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. How to upload your digital diary | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728. It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your approximate arrival and departure time --- Section Separator --- If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. More information about NZ COVID Tracer alerts | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works What type of contact are you? Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers Household members
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing How to get a COVID-19 test When you should get a test, what you need to do, and how to report your RAT results. What you need to know When you need a test Where to get a test How to use a RAT Report your RAT results If you test positive Getting your PCR test results Information in other languages and alternate formats --- Section Separator --- A COVID-19 test is free if it is part of the public health response. This includes if you: have symptoms are a Household Contact are a critical worker and need a test to go to work are part of the healthcare and emergency service workforce require a test for domestic travel or to attend court do a job where mandatory testing applies have been told to get one by a health professional. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test. If you are unsure, talk to your local healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Check the list of COVID-19 symptoms If you live with a person who has COVID-19, you need to get a test on their Day 3 and Day 7 of self-isolation. Advice for Household Contacts If you are a Close Contact, you do not need to get a test unless you develop symptoms. Advice for Close Contacts People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 can get a free test from their doctor or community health provider. They will decide which type of test is best for you. If you want to get a test for another reason — for example, because you are visiting friends or whānau — you can now buy a RAT at some retail outlets. --- Section Separator --- There are 2 types of COVID-19 tests available to the general public in New Zealand. Rapid antigen tests (RATs) are the main testing method being used now for people with COVID-19 symptoms or who are a Household Contact. Results take about 20 minutes. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests are still being used in some situations. Results take between 2 and 5 days. A health professional can advise you on the right test to take in your situation. COVID-19 test results and their accuracy | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are allowed to leave your home to get a COVID-19 test while you are self-isolating. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Requesting RATs to use at home is an easy step-by-step process. RATs can be requested on behalf of someone else. You will need access to a mobile phone to validate your order. Online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Over the phone: 0800 222 478 , choose option 3 (8am-8pm, 7 days a week) You will be issued an order number. You can then collect your RAT order from a collection site listed on Healthpoint, or have someone collect it for you. Your doctor may offer COVID-19 tests. Call them to find out and follow their advice. --- Section Separator --- Test instructions vary depending on the brand. Many rapid antigen testing kits follow the instructions below, but not all. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions. All RAT kits should be kept out of reach of young children and stored safely according to the manufacturer’s instructions. How to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) [PDF, 730 KB] Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you get a positive test result, you must self-isolate immediately and follow the advice for people who have COVID-19. Your test result does not need to be confirmed with a PCR unless advised. What steps to take if you have tested positive If you get a negative test result and do not have symptoms, it is likely you do not have COVID-19. If you have symptoms, stay at home and carry out another RAT 48 hours later. If your symptoms get worse, contact your local healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . It is possible for someone with COVID-19 to get a negative RAT result. This can be because there was not enough virus in the sample, or because the test was not carried out correctly. If a result is failed or indeterminate, you must take another RAT. Follow the manufacturer's instructions on how long to wait between tests. --- Section Separator --- Whether positive or negative, you should report the results of your RAT. You can do this online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. Log in and report your results through My Covid Record (external link) If you are having trouble using My Covid Record, call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3. How to report your RAT result --- Section Separator --- After your test, you must self-isolate until you receive a negative result. You will get your results in a text message from 2328 . It will take between 2 and 5 days. If you test positive, the text message will provide information about self-isolation, support options and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. What steps to take if you have tested positive
Home Traffic lights The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. What you need to know Events at Red Weddings at Red Playing sport at Red Visiting a rest home at Red Businesses and workplaces at Red Travel at Red Attending church at Red Education at Red --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Protection Framework is simpler. It will help us manage life with Omicron while reducing the impact of future outbreaks. Find out about changes to our traffic light system All of New Zealand is at the Red setting. The next review of the traffic light settings will be on Thursday 14 April 2022. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Traffic lights Changes to the traffic light system Some of our traffic light settings have changed. --- Section Separator --- Now is the right time to review the restrictions we have in place, with the Omicron outbreak nearing its peak. A number of the tools that we developed to fight COVID-19 were designed to protect an unvaccinated population from earlier variants of the virus. Our focus now is to make life simpler and closer to normal, but retain the things that we know are most effective at reducing the spread of COVID-19 and protecting people. The COVID-19 Protection Framework is simpler. It will help us manage life with Omicron while reducing the impact of future outbreaks. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand is at the Red setting. The next review of the traffic light settings is on 14 April. It will review what colour each area of New Zealand sits in. --- Section Separator --- There are no limits for outdoor activities, such as gatherings and events, and food and drink businesses. There is a 200-person limit for indoor gatherings and events. There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Other face mask rules remain unchanged — face masks are still required in most indoor settings. There is no requirement to scan in or for a business to display a QR code poster or have mandatory record keeping. --- Section Separator --- There is no limit for outdoor gatherings. There is no limit for indoor gatherings. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Other face mask rules remain unchanged. There is no requirement to scan in or for a business to display a QR code poster or have mandatory record keeping. --- Section Separator --- There are no restrictions. We encourage you to keep up good health behaviours. There is no requirement to scan in or for a business to display a QR code poster or have mandatory record keeping. --- Section Separator --- There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses can still use the system if they would like to. --- Section Separator --- Some government vaccine mandates for workers have been removed. Workers that are still covered by a government vaccine mandate include: health and disability sector workers — including aged care workers prison staff border and MIQ workers. Certain roles within the following workforces may also be captured by government vaccine mandates, if they are working in an environment where a mandate is required — for example, alongside paramedics or other health workers. NZ Police NZ Defence Force Fire and Emergency New Zealand. Vaccine mandates remain in place for these sectors because workers in these areas have a high level of contact with people at risk of developing serious illness from COVID-19. For border workers, there is a high risk of exposure to new variants. Businesses will be able to voluntarily introduce workforce vaccination requirements if appropriate to the workforce.
Home Traffic lights COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) The COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic light system) sets out our plan to manage life with Omicron while reducing the impact of future outbreaks. --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Protection Framework is simpler. It will help us manage life with Omicron while reducing the impact of future outbreaks. Find out about changes to our traffic light system All of New Zealand is at the Red setting. The next review of the traffic light settings will be on Thursday 14 April 2022. --- Section Separator --- The framework will continue to protect New Zealanders, while also providing more certainty and new opportunities. It minimises the impact and provides protection from COVID-19 through 3 settings — Red, Orange and Green. Minimisation means we are aiming to keep the spread of COVID-19 and hospitilisations at as low a level as possible. Outbreaks will be contained and controlled, and if practical, stamped out. There will likely be some level of cases in the community on an ongoing basis. Protection means that we will protect people from the virus, with vaccination, infection prevention and control, and general public health measures (for example contact tracing, case management and testing). Response will also focus on minimising significant health impacts through treatment and support. We will also protect people’s health, by ensuring we are not letting cases go to the point where the impacts have flow-on effects to impact other health services. The framework is intended to give as much certainty and stability as possible for people and businesses, reducing the need for widespread lockdowns. --- Section Separator --- A high vaccination rate is a key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19. Getting vaccinated reduces the likeliness of getting really sick, going to hospital or passing COVID-19 on to others. There are places where vaccination for workers is required, for example within the border, prisons, and health and disability sectors. Specified limits are based on 1 metre distancing, which means 1 metre square of space for each person (the number of people is limited by the space available). It does not mean people must remain 1 metre apart from others. Capacity limits include everyone in a defined space, excluding workers (paid and unpaid). Under the framework localised lockdowns and protections can be used to control high rates of transmission. The restrictions implemented will consider specific circumstances and the nature of the public health response. They could include: stay at home orders closure of premises, for example schools and retail restrictions on gatherings restrictions on movement in and out of the lockdown area. If your business, service, or activity is not captured specifically in the Framework you must follow the public health measures specified in the general settings. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. There are no restrictions.
Home Traffic lights Life at Green At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- There are no restrictions. There is no requirement to scan in or for a business to display a QR code poster or have mandatory record keeping. --- Section Separator --- Face masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. They are useful in poorly ventilated indoor areas and when you are around people you do not know. Stay home if you are sick, and take a rapid antigen test (RAT) if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser. Cough or sneeze into your elbow. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces regularly. Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. If air conditioning is used, make sure the system is regularly maintained. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Keep track of where you have been. Stay up to date with your vaccinations. Learn more about healthy habits --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits can go ahead, including visiting friends and whānau, weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits can go ahead, including visiting friends and whānau, weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Workplaces are open at Orange. Employees should talk to their employers about working at Orange. There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Requiring My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate need to be fully vaccinated. Vaccine information for businesses If you are a business owner or manager, think about what steps you can take to protect your staff and customers, if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan for your business. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you enter a business as a visitor or customer that has chosen to check My Vaccine Passes, you will need to show them your pass. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass by looking at it, or scanning the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. You must wear a face mask in many indoor settings at Orange. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. COVID-19 support for employers | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information. Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Education Early learning and schools Children can attend early learning services, playgroups and schools at Orange, and must follow some public health measures. --- Section Separator --- All playgroups, early learning centres, schools and kura can open and children do not need to be vaccinated to attend. Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. All parents/caregivers and other visitors are encouraged to wear a face mask indoors. All ākonga (students) aged 12 years or over must wear face masks on public and school transport. --- Section Separator --- Certified playgroups can open. --- Section Separator --- All licensed early learning services can open with public health measures in places. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face masks on site. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are encouraged, but not required, when inside at school. All ākonga aged 12 and up must wear face masks on school transport. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face masks on site. You do not need to wear a face mask when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We encourage you to. Wearing a face mask --- Section Separator --- Children and parents/caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: licensed early childhood education services and registered primary and secondary schools, including private providers school hostels school transport services for all students out of school care and recreation (OSCAR) programmes secondary students who attend a tertiary education facility for their learning (except if they are participating in a workplace-based programme that has a vaccination policy). All children and young people can participate in all school-organised teams and groups, regardless of their vaccination status. --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, they will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. Only people with COVID-19 and their Household Contacts need to self-isolate. If your child has been near someone with COVID-19 who is not in their household: they do not need to stay home from school or kura, and they do not need to get a test, unless they get symptoms. If your child or someone in their household gets COVID-19, you should tell their school or kura. Everyone in the household must self-isolate. What happens if you test positive Household Contacts How to self-isolate Check with your school or kura about how they will manage COVID-19 cases. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services and schools | temahau.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Anyone who is required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students are encouraged to wear face masks in communal areas, and keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Travel at Orange --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information from the Ministry of Education at temahau.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services and schools | temahau.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Education Tertiary education Students can attend tertiary education in person at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education facilities can open. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials and meetings in person. My Vaccine Pass is not required, but tertiary providers may have their own requirements. Check with your provider. If you do not meet their vaccine requirements, talk to them about alternative learning options. --- Section Separator --- Anyone who is required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation can open. Check with your provider about their requirements. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Orange --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors at Orange. You must wear a face mask in many indoor settings at Orange. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccinations are free. If you need help with costs to get to a vaccination centre, talk to StudyLink about how they can help you. COVID-19 vaccination travel | studylink.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education providers and students can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary and international sector | temahau.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Events and public facilities Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events can go ahead. Public facilities can open. There are no limits to how many people can attend an event or public facility. You must wear a face mask indoors at public facilities, except swimming pools. You do not need to wear a face mask at an event, either indoors or outdoors. --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration must follow the rules for gatherings. Gatherings at Orange --- Section Separator --- Public facilities, like libraries, swimming pools and zoos, can open at Orange. --- Section Separator --- There are no limits on the number of people who can attend an event or visit a public facility. This applies indoors and outdoors. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask in many indoor settings such as on public transport, in retail premises and public facilities (excluding swimming pools). You do not need to wear face masks outdoors. If you are attending a gathering or event, you do not need to wear a face mask either indoors or outdoors. Workers and volunteers at indoor events must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can find more information at business.govt.nz. Public facilities guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Local government can find more information at dia.govt.nz. COVID-19 Local Government Response Update | dia.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings and visits Gatherings and visits can go ahead, including visiting friends and whānau, weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. --- Section Separator --- There is no limit for indoor or outdoor gatherings. You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering, but it is encouraged. Workers and volunteers at gatherings must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. --- Section Separator --- All types of gatherings can go ahead, including weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, funerals and tangihanga, club functions, community fairs and social sports. --- Section Separator --- There are no limits on the number of people who can attend an indoor or outdoor gathering. Events have different rules to gatherings. Events control access by using tickets, registration, a fee or another way of controlling entry. For example, a ticketed concert held at a place of worship is an event. Events at Orange --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering. People serving or handling food must wear face masks. If your gathering is at a hospitality venue — for example, at a restaurant — you need to follow the hospitality advice. If you have exclusive use of a hospitality venue, then you do not need to follow the hospitality advice. Hospitality at Orange --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask when attending a gathering, but it is encouraged. Workers and volunteers at gatherings must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. Performers and formal speakers do not need to wear a face mask when performing or speaking. They should wear face masks when not performing or speaking. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Gatherings at marae can go ahead. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep workers and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for health professionals | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Orange. Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737. It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face masks. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility, and all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: not kiss or touch the body wash your hands thoroughly after the viewing. Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz: COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Guidelines for places of worship [PDF, 246 KB] --- Section Separator --- There are currently no face-to-face visits allowed for private and legal visitors. When visits start again, all private visitors are required to be fully vaccinated. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Hospitality venues Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality venues can open. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass. You do not need to wear a face mask at indoor or outdoor hospitality venues. Public-facing workers at indoor hospitality venues must wear face masks. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. There are no limits on the number of people who can be at the venue — either indoors or outdoors. You do not have to be seated to be served. Food and drink services that only offer takeaway, like coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Shopping and services at Orange --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask at indoor or outdoor hospitality venues. Public-facing workers at indoor hospitality venues must wear face masks. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Moving, buying and selling your home You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can move house, and buy and sell property at Orange. There is no limit to how many people can attend open homes and property inspections. You do not need to wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- You can move house at Orange. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel between regions that are at different settings. Travel advice --- Section Separator --- You can buy or sell a property at Orange. You can hold and attend open homes. You can carry out property inspections. There is no limit to how many people can attend open homes and property inspections. You can travel between regions that are at different settings. Advice for landlords and tenants | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) Travel advice --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies and moving companies can find more detailed information, including advice for holding open homes and auctions. Services guidelines under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Guidelines for real estate activities during COVID-19 | rea.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Shopping and services You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. --- Section Separator --- You can always access these places at Orange: supermarkets dairies food banks pharmacies petrol stations essential health and disability services, including primary care services, specialist clinics, laboratories and imaging services, public and private hospitals, maternity care, hospice services, oral healthcare services, mental health care services, ambulances and emergency care aged residential care services if you are a resident public housing and social housing emergency accommodation for people in need. --- Section Separator --- Shops, including outdoor markets, banks and takeaway-only businesses, can open. Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter the shop. You must wear a face mask when you are visiting a shop indoors. --- Section Separator --- You can use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. Some transport providers — such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators — may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. --- Section Separator --- Children, students, their parents or caregivers will not be asked to provide proof of vaccination to access these places: licensed early childhood education services and registered primary and secondary schools, including private providers school hostels school transport services for all students out of school care and recreation (OSCAR) programmes secondary students who attend a tertiary organisation education facility for their learning (except if they are participating in a workplace-based  programme that has adopted a vaccination policy). --- Section Separator --- You can visit a close-proximity business at Orange. There is no limit to how many people can be present. Examples are: barbers hairdressers beauty salons driving instructors massage therapists. --- Section Separator --- You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at any traffic light setting. Examples of trades and home services are: getting home appliances fixed, like your fridge utility services, like gas and power cleaning for people who need assistance because of sickness or disability gardening services getting internet or other services installed or fixed locksmiths vet and pest management services. While they are inside your house it is recommended you: keep 1 metre apart from them, and wear a face mask. Tradespeople do not need to wear a face mask when inside people’s homes. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face mask in retail outlets and on public transport. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retail advice under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Advice for health providers under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Advice for retailers | business.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Sport and recreation You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor sport events can go ahead at Orange. This includes community and professional sport. Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities can open. This includes gyms, dance studios, ice skating rinks, playgrounds and outdoor exercise classes. There are no capacity limits indoors or outdoors. --- Section Separator --- If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Orange --- Section Separator --- If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Orange --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors at Orange. You must wear a face mask in many indoor settings at Orange. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Sports clubs can find more detailed information on sportnz.org.nz: COVID-19 overview | sportnz.org.nz (external link) Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Entertainment, recreation and exercise guidance | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Travel and accommodation You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at any traffic light setting. There are no boundaries under the traffic lights. You can travel for any reason. Accommodation can open. There are no capacity limits. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at any traffic light setting. You can travel for any reason. Unless your transport provider requires it, you do not need a My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test to travel. If you are travelling into a different setting area, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. You do not need to physically distance. You must wear a face mask: on indoor public transport at indoor arrival and departure points, for example airports and some train stations. You do not need to physically distance on public transport, at bus stops or train stations. Wear a face mask You must wear a face mask: in taxis in ride-share vehicles Wear a face mask If you are self-isolating, you can only leave your home for a few reasons. If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, you should stay home. How to self-isolate What to do if you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Accommodation can open at Orange. There are no capacity limits. This includes: hotels and motels boarding houses backpackers campgrounds seasonal worker accommodation AirBnB properties tertiary accommodation. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an accommodation facility, follow the relevant advice: Events at Orange Gatherings at Orange If the accommodation service contains a hospitality venue, they need to follow advice for hospitality services. Hospitality at Orange You do not need to wear a face mask at accommodation facilities. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Transport operators can find more information: Advice for transport operators about COVID-19 Protection Framework | transport.govt.nz (external link) Advice for transport, freight and logistics | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. What to do at Red: Gatherings and visits Hospitality Close-proximity businesses, like hairdressers Travel Sports and recreation Events Education Shopping Access to basic needs --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. You will always be able to access basic needs services , such as food and healthcare. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason, and see friends and whānau. You must wear a face mask in most indoor locations. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You can visit cafes and bars, attend gatherings and events, and go to the hairdresser and gym. There are capacity limits and distancing requirements at some venues. Workplaces and schools are open. Keep physically distanced wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with some requirements and restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Red, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Red. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Red. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with some requirements and restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Red, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Red. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Red. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. To slow the spread of the disease, we encourage those who can, to work from home. If you are a worker, talk to your employer or read more at employment.govt.nz Working at Red | employment.govt.nz (external link) (external link) How to run your business at Red | business.govt.nz (external link) Some critical workers may be able to return to work if they are a Household Contact, are fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. Find out more about the close contact exemption scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass requirements have been removed, but businesses can choose to continue to follow them. If you enter a business that is still following the requirements as a visitor or customer, you may be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass, either by looking at it, or scanning it with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Children under 12 years and 3 months can enter businesses without a My Vaccine Pass. Find out when you need your My Vaccine Pass Shops and close-proximity businesses at Red Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- Workplaces can open at Red. To slow the spread of the disease, we also encourage those who can, to work from home. Working from home is not practical for everyone, but if it is a practical option for you, we are encouraging you to do so. Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate must be vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- If you are a business owner or manager, you should have a plan in place to protect your workers and customers if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) During the Omicron response, workers who at registered critical services who are a Household Contact may continue to work. They must be fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. More information about critical workers --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport, this includes Cook Strait Ferries but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services at indoor arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport if you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above on public transport and Ministry of Education funded school transport in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public venues or facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic in an indoor setting at schools, for example classrooms and assemblies. This includes visitors, workers, and students and teachers in Years 4 to 13 inside at tertiary education facilities when visiting a licensed early childhood service at food and drink businesses, for example cafes, bars and restaurants — if you are seated indoors. You can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink at close-proximity businesses, for example hairdressers, barbers, beauty salons at an indoor event at an indoor gathering, except when you have exclusive use of the venue or defined space when visiting the indoor area of a court or tribunal — unless the judicial officer does not require them at premises operated by local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a health care service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. COVID-19 support for employers | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information. Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Education Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. --- Section Separator --- All playgroups, early learning centres, schools and kura can open . All school staff and teachers for children in Year 4 and up must wear a face mask indoors. Tertiary institutions can open, and students can attend in person. Staff, students and visitors must wear a face mask indoors in public areas and during teaching and learning. --- Section Separator --- Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Red. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Red. --- Section Separator --- Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Red. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Red.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Education Early learning, schools and kura at Red Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Red. --- Section Separator --- All early learning centres, Playgroups, schools and kura can open, and children do not need to be vaccinated to attend. Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Playgroups can open. All parents/caregivers and other visitors must wear a face mask indoors. All students aged 8 years or over, or in Year 4 and up, must wear a face mask indoors, and on public and school transport. All school staff and teachers for children in Year 4 and up must wear a face mask indoors. --- Section Separator --- Staff and students in years 4 to 13 must wear face masks indoors at school. All parents/caregivers and visitors must wear a face mask indoors. Mask guidance | temahau.govt.nz (external link) All parents/caregivers and other visitors are encouraged to maintain 1-metre distancing from other adults while indoors, for example to settle your child or to view a service. --- Section Separator --- Certified playgroups can open. All parents/caregivers and other visitors are required to wear face masks indoors. Face masks must be an actual mask, secured with ear loops or a head loop. Staff and volunteers must wear medical-grade face masks when indoors. Types of mask --- Section Separator --- All licensed early learning services and kōhanga reo can open. Parents/caregivers who can supervise their children at home are encouraged to do so. This does not prevent parent-led services from opening. If required, services will be able to make choices about their capacity to manage attendance. All parents/caregivers and other visitors are required to wear face masks indoors. Face masks must be an actual mask, secured with ear loops or a head loop. Staff and volunteers do not have to wear a face mask, but they can if they want to. Children attending early learning services do not have to wear face masks on early learning service transport. This includes buses or vans chartered or used by early learning services to carry children, students and staff. Types of mask --- Section Separator --- Schools and kura can open. All ākonga (students) aged 8 years or over, or in Year 4 or up, must wear face masks at schools and kura when: indoors on public transport at all times on school transport. Ākonga do not need to wear a face mask when outdoors. Face masks for students must be an actual mask, secured with ear loops or a head loop. Staff and teachers must wear medical grade face masks when teaching and supporting children in Years 4 and up. Wearing a face mask Mask guidance | temahau.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students are encouraged to keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Travel at Red --- Section Separator --- Children and parents/caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: licensed early childhood education services and registered primary and secondary schools, including private providers school hostels school transport services for all students out of school care and recreation (OSCAR) programmes secondary students who attend a tertiary education facility for their learning (except if they are participating in a workplace-based programme that has a vaccination policy). All children and young people can participate in all school-organised teams and groups, regardless of their vaccination status. --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, they will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. Only people with COVID-19 and their Household Contacts need to self-isolate. If your child has been near someone with COVID-19 who is not in their household: they do not need to stay home from school or kura, and they do not need to get a test, unless they get symptoms. If your child or someone in their household gets COVID-19, you should tell their school or kura. Everyone in the household must self-isolate. What happens if you test positive Household Contacts How to self-isolate Check with your school or kura about how they will manage COVID-19 cases. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services and schools | temahau.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Anyone who is required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information from the Ministry of Education at temahau.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services and schools | temahau.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Education Tertiary education at Red Students can attend tertiary education in person at Red. --- Section Separator --- Tertiary institutions can open. Students can attend in person. Staff, students and visitors must wear a face mask indoors in public areas and during teaching and learning. Do not go to any educational service if you are unwell, awaiting a COVID-19 test result or are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials and meetings in person when tertiary sites are open. My Vaccine Pass is not required, but tertiary providers may have their own requirements. Check with your provider. If you do not meet their vaccine requirements, talk to them about alternative learning options. Capacity is based on 1-metre distancing. Physical distancing is not required, though tertiary providers may impose their own distancing requirements. --- Section Separator --- Staff, students and visitors must wear a face mask indoors in public areas at tertiary education facilities, and indoors during teaching and learning activities — unless you have an exemption. Face masks must also be worn indoors when accessing services such as student health, pharmacies and other retailers on-site. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Anyone who is required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation can open. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass for residents and staff. Check with your provider about their requirements. Accommodation at Red --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education providers and students can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary and international sector | temahau.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Red. --- Section Separator --- Events can go ahead. Indoor events are limited to 200 people . There are no capacity limits outdoors. Children and babies are included in the event limits — but not people working at a gathering. When food and drink is being served, you must be seated and separated. Public facilities can open with capacity limits. --- Section Separator --- Events can go ahead at Red. Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Red with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Events can go ahead at Red. Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Red with restrictions.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Events Events can go ahead at Red. --- Section Separator --- Indoor events are limited to 200 people. Outdoor events have no capacity limits. Children and babies are included in the capacity limits — but not people working at events. You must wear a face mask at indoor events. When food and drink is being served, you must be seated and separated . --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Red. Examples are: auctions cinemas commercial recreation activities concert venues conferences private galleries sporting events stadiums. There can be up to 200 people in a defined space at the venue at any time, based on 1-metre physical distancing. This includes children, but not workers. Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- Generally, when food and drink is being served, you must remain seated and separated . You can move around when you are not being served or eating. In cinemas, theatres and stadiums, you can buy food and drink from the counter, but you must be seated when you consume it. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at an indoor event. You do not need to wear a face mask if the event is outdoors. Event workers and volunteers must wear a face mask at indoor events. They do not need to wear face masks at outdoor events. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Public facilities Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Red with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can open with capacity limits. Face masks must be worn indoors, but not at swimming pools. Maintain 1-metre physical distancing from others wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can open, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing . Examples of public facilities include: libraries public galleries museums zoos swimming pools recreation centres. Some public facilities may choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show My Vaccine Pass at the facilities. Check before you go. Face masks must be worn at indoor public facilities. Maintain 1-metre physical distancing from others wherever possible. Public facilities can open, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing . Public facilities are responsible for determining capacity limits of each facility, based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can find more information at business.govt.nz. Public facilities guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Local government can find more information at dia.govt.nz. COVID-19 Local Government Response Update | dia.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with some restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings can go ahead. Indoor gatherings are limited to 200 people. Outdoor gatherings have no limit . Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not people working at a gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering, or when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. At all gatherings, people do not need to physically distance. --- Section Separator --- You can have up to 200 people at an indoor gathering at Red. Outdoor gatherings have no limit. You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. Marae can open at Whero (Red), with indoor gatherings limited to 200 people. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Red. Information on what an indoor and outdoor defined space is, and how it applies to face masks and capacity limits. --- Section Separator --- You can have up to 200 people at an indoor gathering at Red. Outdoor gatherings have no limit. You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. Marae can open at Whero (Red), with indoor gatherings limited to 200 people. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Red. Information on what an indoor and outdoor defined space is, and how it applies to face masks and capacity limits.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Defined spaces --- Section Separator --- Indoor spaces are generally considered to be venues that: are enclosed by a ceiling and walls, or other similar structures, and do not have much, if any, flow of fresh air. Examples include many gyms, nightclubs, restaurants and halls. Indoor space is a single defined space if: there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces, and the space does not share direct airflow with other indoor spaces. Indoor defined spaces can include temporary structures, like marquees, that are enclosed by temporary walls on multiple sides or plastic domes. Outdoor spaces are generally considered to be places that have good ventilation, with a decent amount of free flowing, fresh air coming into the space. For example, this could be because the venue: does not have a roof has fewer than 4 walls, or because its walls do not go all the way up and still allow a significant amount of air flow. An outdoor space is a single defined space if: there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces, or there is at least 2 metres separating everyone in the gathering space from people who are outside that space and who are not attending the gathering. Outdoor defined spaces can include: areas cordoned off with rope, fencing, barriers or bollards with clear entry and exit points . temporary structures, like marquees with sides rolled up and gazebos. Some venues are made up of indoor and outdoor spaces. The activity that occurs in these indoor spaces should determine what capacity limit applies to the indoor space — the rule follows the activity. This means that: retail capacity limits (capacity based on 1 metre distancing) generally apply to the indoor places in which people: travel directly through to get to an outdoor space, and/or need to go so they can purchase things (for example food, to eat when back outdoors), and/or need to go to use the bathroom. travel directly through to get to an outdoor space, and/or need to go so they can purchase things (for example food, to eat when back outdoors), and/or need to go to use the bathroom. indoor capacity limits (of up to 200 people based on 1 metre distancing) generally apply to indoor spaces if people are using the space for purposes other than those listed directly above. If there is more than 1 space on the premises, people using the space (other than workers), cannot mix with other people using, entering, or leaving the premises. Workers can move between gatherings held in different defined spaces. Every venue is different, so it is up to the venue owner or gathering organiser to put measures in place to stop groups of people mixing within each defined space. To ensure groups do not mix, consider: separate entry and exit points staggering start times for events or gatherings separate bathrooms different service counters for food and drinks, and areas where people go up to pay. Guidance on capacity limits in indoor and outdoor spaces [PDF, 84 KB] You do not need to wear a face mask at an indoor gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space. This means that the area can be closed off to the public and is used only by people attending your event or gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering. All workers must wear a face mask an indoor gatherings, unless they are exempt. Some venues and facilities may have capacity limits based on their defined space. Capacity limits are based on the number of people who could be in the defined space if everyone stands 1 metre apart, and are limited to a maximum of 200 people. Smaller spaces may need to have fewer than 200 people. When you are working out the maximum number of people allowed in each defined space, do not include workers. More information about gathering limits at Red: Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae --- Section Separator --- Indoor spaces are generally considered to be venues that: are enclosed by a ceiling and walls, or other similar structures, and do not have much, if any, flow of fresh air. Examples include many gyms, nightclubs, restaurants and halls. Indoor space is a single defined space if: there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces, and the space does not share direct airflow with other indoor spaces. Indoor defined spaces can include temporary structures, like marquees, that are enclosed by temporary walls on multiple sides or plastic domes. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor spaces are generally considered to be places that have good ventilation, with a decent amount of free flowing, fresh air coming into the space. For example, this could be because the venue: does not have a roof has fewer than 4 walls, or because its walls do not go all the way up and still allow a significant amount of air flow. An outdoor space is a single defined space if: there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces, or there is at least 2 metres separating everyone in the gathering space from people who are outside that space and who are not attending the gathering. Outdoor defined spaces can include: areas cordoned off with rope, fencing, barriers or bollards with clear entry and exit points . temporary structures, like marquees with sides rolled up and gazebos. --- Section Separator --- Some venues are made up of indoor and outdoor spaces. The activity that occurs in these indoor spaces should determine what capacity limit applies to the indoor space — the rule follows the activity. This means that: retail capacity limits (capacity based on 1 metre distancing) generally apply to the indoor places in which people: travel directly through to get to an outdoor space, and/or need to go so they can purchase things (for example food, to eat when back outdoors), and/or need to go to use the bathroom. travel directly through to get to an outdoor space, and/or need to go so they can purchase things (for example food, to eat when back outdoors), and/or need to go to use the bathroom. indoor capacity limits (of up to 200 people based on 1 metre distancing) generally apply to indoor spaces if people are using the space for purposes other than those listed directly above. If there is more than 1 space on the premises, people using the space (other than workers), cannot mix with other people using, entering, or leaving the premises. Workers can move between gatherings held in different defined spaces. Every venue is different, so it is up to the venue owner or gathering organiser to put measures in place to stop groups of people mixing within each defined space. To ensure groups do not mix, consider: separate entry and exit points staggering start times for events or gatherings separate bathrooms different service counters for food and drinks, and areas where people go up to pay. Guidance on capacity limits in indoor and outdoor spaces [PDF, 84 KB] --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask at an indoor gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space. This means that the area can be closed off to the public and is used only by people attending your event or gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering. All workers must wear a face mask an indoor gatherings, unless they are exempt. --- Section Separator --- Some venues and facilities may have capacity limits based on their defined space. Capacity limits are based on the number of people who could be in the defined space if everyone stands 1 metre apart, and are limited to a maximum of 200 people. Smaller spaces may need to have fewer than 200 people. When you are working out the maximum number of people allowed in each defined space, do not include workers. --- Section Separator --- More information about gathering limits at Red: Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae at Red — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Visiting friends and whānau Defined spaces Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae at Red — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Visiting friends and whānau Defined spaces Travel and accommodation Businesses and workplaces Hospitality venues Shopping and services Events and public facilities Education Moving, buying and selling your home Sport and recreation
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Faith-based gatherings You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. --- Section Separator --- Faith-based gatherings can go ahead. Indoor faith-based gatherings are limited to 200 people. Outdoor faith-based gatherings have no limit . Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not people working (including volunteers) at a gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask if your gathering is outside, or when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. --- Section Separator --- A gathering is a group of people who are intermingling. Most faith-based services are gatherings. Examples of faith-based gatherings that can go ahead at Red include: services at places of worship prayer group at home weddings funerals and tangihanga. Weddings at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Marae at Red Events have different rules to gatherings. Events control access by using tickets, registration, a fee or another way of controlling entry. For example, a ticketed concert held at a place of worship is an event. Events at Red Encourage contactless donations instead of a cash collection box. Consider offering online services so people who cannot attend in person can participate. Clean and sanitise musical instruments thoroughly before and after use. --- Section Separator --- Guidelines for places of worship [PDF, 246 KB] --- Section Separator --- Indoor faith-based gatherings are limited to 200 people. Outdoor faith-based gatherings have no limit. Workers (paid or unpaid) at a gathering — for example, the person leading the service and musicians — are not included in the gathering limits. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits. At all gatherings, you do not need to physically distance. This means you can move around, mingle with others and dance. --- Section Separator --- Face mask requirements for people at the gathering who are not working will depend on where and how the gathering is held: You must wear a face mask at an indoor gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoors gathering, or when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with gathering attendees. Where face masks are required, you can remove them to eat and drink. Face masks must not be removed while singing. If 2 metres away from others, performers and workers presenting to an audience can remove their face masks. All workers (paid or unpaid) at faith-based gatherings must wear a face mask throughout the gathering. When to wear a face mask Face mask exemptions Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your faith-based gathering, but people should not share drinks, cups, plates, cutlery or other items. Unless your gathering is at a hospitality venue, people do not need to sit down to eat or drink. If your gathering is at a hospitality venue, for example around a table at a restaurant, you need to follow the hospitality advice. If you have exclusive use of a hospitality venue, then you do not need to follow the hospitality advice. Where face masks are required, these can be removed while eating and drinking. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. --- Section Separator --- Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Red. There can be up to 200 people in a single defined space at an indoor venue at any time. The limit includes children under 12, whānau pani and ringawera. There is no limit to how many people can be at an outdoor venue. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes marae churches, mosques and other faith-based places of worship hired venues or facilities private homes You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga, burial or viewing. You can serve food and drink. Defined spaces at Red A marae can have multiple groups of 200 people coming through to attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Red Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). Up to 200 people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you are fully vaccinated. This can include: washing dressing shrouding other preparations for cremation or burial. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility, and all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask if the funeral or tangihanga has exclusive use of a venue. We encourage you to wear a face mask in shared areas — if there are other activities happening at the venue at the same time. Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face masks —  unless they are exempt. Workers hosting or officiating the service do not need to wear a face mask when speaking and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. When you need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: not kiss or touch the body wash your hands thoroughly after the viewing physically distance from others of at least 1 metre. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Marae at Red — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Marae can open at Whero (Red), with indoor gatherings limited to 200 people. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings at marae can go ahead. There can be up to 200 people in a single defined indoor space at the marae at a time. There is no limit on outdoor gatherings. Children, babies, whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the gathering limits — but not people working (including volunteers). Manuhiri (visitors to the marae) do not need to wear a face mask if they are the only group using the defined space and other manuhiri cannot mix. --- Section Separator --- At Whero, gatherings at marae can go ahead. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. --- Section Separator --- There can be up to 200 people in a single defined space at the marae at a time. This number includes tamariki under the age of 12 years and 3 months. Defined spaces at Red Whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the number limits on marae. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend if the gathering is outdoors. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. Public and private gatherings at Red Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red --- Section Separator --- Workers and volunteers at a marae must wear a face mask when indoors. If you cannot wear a face mask, for example, for medical reasons, you can get an exemption card. Manuhiri (visitors to the marae) do not need to wear a face mask if their gathering is outdoors, or if the gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix. Manuhiri must wear a face mask if the defined space is indoors and shared with other groups or members of the public. Face masks can be removed to eat or drink. They can also be removed by kaikōrero if they can keep 2 metres away from their audience at all times. When you need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- You can serve kai. Decisions about how to serve kai will be made by Marae Kōmiti. Marae may choose to continue using options like takeaway lunches or eating outside. People serving or handling kai must wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- Overnight stays are permitted on marae. The same rules apply as day time visits. --- Section Separator --- Marae often have large groups of people visiting and gathering together. There are some simple things marae can do to keep whānau safe: Clean surfaces and rooms in between groups. Ask people with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay home. Modify tikanga that involves close contact — for example hongi and harirū. --- Section Separator --- He kupu āwhina i ngā marae | COVID-19 guidance for marae [PDF, 4.6 MB]
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings You can have up to 200 people at an indoor gathering at Red. Outdoor gatherings have no limit. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings can go ahead. Indoor gatherings are limited to 200 people. Outdoor gatherings have no limit . Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not people working at a gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering, or when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. At all gatherings, people do not need to physically distance. --- Section Separator --- Examples of gatherings that can go ahead at Red include: catching up with friends and whānau weddings and civil union ceremonies most faith-based gatherings get-togethers and parties at your home club functions social sports funerals and tangihanga most gatherings at marae street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs. Find more information: Faith-based gatherings at Red Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Marae at Red --- Section Separator --- Gatherings at your home or a private dwelling are limited to 200 people . Gatherings at other indoor venues are limited to a maximum of 200 people. It is the responsibility of the venue to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Smaller venues will be limited to fewer than 200 people. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend an outdoor gathering. Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering. Unless your gathering is at a hospitality venue, people do not need to sit down to eat or drink. If your gathering is at a hospitality venue, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow the hospitality advice. If you have exclusive use of a hospitality venue, then you do not need to follow the hospitality advice. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at an indoor gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering, or at an indoor gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. This means that you do not need to wear a face mask at most weddings, funerals or tangihanga, or faith-based gatherings. Everyone working at the gathering must wear a face mask — unless they are exempt. Performers do not need to wear a face mask when performing and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. They should wear face masks when not performing. When to wear a face mask Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. Advice for faith-based gatherings --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Visiting friends and whānau You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, healthcare facilities and prisons at Red. --- Section Separator --- Friends and whānau can visit each other's homes at every traffic light setting. There may be restrictions on who can visit rest homes, aged care facilities, hospitals and healthcare facilities. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility, hospital or healthcare facility. --- Section Separator --- Household bubbles do not exist under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights). You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Examples include: catching up with friends and whānau at their home or your home parties and other gatherings at their home or your home. You and your guests do not need to wear face masks. Learn more about private gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep workers and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for health professionals | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are currently no face-to-face visits allowed for private and legal visitors. When visits start again, all private visitors are required to be fully vaccinated. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask if you are visiting friends and whānau at their home, or hosting a gathering for them at your own home. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility, hospital or healthcare facility. Learn more about when you need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Weddings and civil unions at Red You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. --- Section Separator --- Weddings and civil union ceremonies can go ahead. Indoor ceremonies are limited to 200 people. Outdoor ceremonies have no limit . Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not workers, such as the celebrant or the photographer. You do not have to wear a face mask for outdoor ceremonies, or if you have exclusive use of a defined space for your wedding or civil union. You do not have to physically distance — this means you can dance and mingle. --- Section Separator --- You can have 200 people if your wedding or civil union is at a private home or dwelling. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits. The 200-person limit does not include people working at the wedding or civil union ceremony, such as the celebrant, photographer, performers and catering staff. Friends and whānau participating in the ceremony are not included as workers. If your ceremony is outdoors, there is no limit to the number of people who can attend. These are limited to a maximum of up to 200 people based on 1-metre physical distancing. The capacity limit is based on the maximum number of people who could occupy the space if each person was 1 metre apart. People do not have to keep 1 metre apart at the venue. This means if your wedding is at a smaller venue, you may be limited to fewer than 200 people. It is up to the venue owner to determine the capacity limits based on the size of their venue. Talk to the venue owner about the number of guests you can safely invite. --- Section Separator --- You and your guests do not need to wear a face mask if your ceremony is outdoors, or if you have exclusive use of an indoor defined space for your wedding or civil union ceremony — f or example, if you have hired a lodge, hall or vineyard . This includes weddings held at private homes. You and your guests must wear a face mask if you do not have exclusive use of the defined space where the wedding is taking place — for example, if members of the public also have access to it. You can take your face mask off to eat and drink. Workers at the wedding or civil union ceremony must wear a face mask, unless they are exempt. Performers, such as a band, do not need to wear a face mask when performing if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. They must wear face masks when not performing. When you need to wear a face mask Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- Everyone can move around, dance and mingle. Singing and other types of performance are also allowed. --- Section Separator --- You and your guests do not need to physically distance. --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink. If you have exclusively hired a venue for your wedding or civil union ceremony, people do not need to sit down to eat or drink.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Hospitality venues Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red. --- Section Separator --- Cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs can open at Red. There can be up to 200 people indoors , including children. There are no capacity limits outdoors . Customers must be seated and separated from other groups indoors. You must wear a face mask when going to a hospitality venue — you can take your mask off when outdoors, seated and to eat and drink, but you must wear a face mask when paying, using the bathroom and entering and exiting the venue. Public-facing workers must wear face masks. Takeaway businesses can open. --- Section Separator --- There can be up to 200 people indoors, including children. The limit does not include workers. There is no limit for outdoor venues . Customers must be seated and separated from other groups indoors. Nightclubs can open, but customers must be seated and separated, which means dancing is not allowed. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Food and drink service guidelines | Business.govt.nz (external link) You must wear a face mask when going to a hospitality venue — you can take your mask off when outdoors, seated and to eat and drink, but you must wear a face mask when paying, using the bathroom and entering and exiting the venue. Public-facing workers must wear medical grade face masks. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Food and beverage businesses that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can open. Takeaway services should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Red Order ahead, either online or over the phone. Wear a face mask. Prepay online, or use a contactless payment method, like PayWave. If you are using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, we recommend you wash or sanitise your hands as soon as possible. You may be able to use reusable cups or containers. Check with the takeaway provider. Keep apart from others while waiting in a queue. Get it and go — make your visit as quick as possible. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Moving, buying and selling your home You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can move house at Red. You can buy or sell your home at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can move house at Red. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at all traffic light settings for any reason, including to move house. Travel advice --- Section Separator --- You can buy or sell your home at Red. You can hold and attend open homes. You can carry out property inspections. Advice for landlords and tenants | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) Properties can have up to 200 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space at any time. It is the responsibility of the property owner or real estate agent to comply with capacity limits. Property owners and real estate agents should agree any face mask requirements for open homes. Guidelines for real estate activities at Red | rea.govt.nz (external link) Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- Property owners and real estate agents should agree any face mask requirements for open homes. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies and moving companies can find more detailed information, including advice for holding open homes and auctions. Services guidelines under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Guidelines for real estate activities during COVID-19 | rea.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Red, and visit other retail outlets. --- Section Separator --- Shops , retail outlets , and close-proximity businesses , such as barbers, can open at Red. The number of people allowed inside a business depends on how large the premises is. You must wear a face mask indoors when visiting shops , retail outlets and close-proximity businesses . --- Section Separator --- Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Red. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Red. --- Section Separator --- Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Red. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Red.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Access to basic needs Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. --- Section Separator --- At every traffic light setting, you will be able to access basic needs such as food, healthcare and education. You will not be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass to use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. You must wear a face mask when accessing services for basic needs. --- Section Separator --- You can access these places and services: supermarkets dairies food banks pharmacies petrol stations essential health and disability services, including primary care services, specialist clinics, laboratories and imaging services, public and private hospitals, maternity care, hospice services, oral healthcare services, mental health care services, ambulances and emergency care aged residential care services if you are a resident public housing and social housing emergency accommodation for people in need. You can use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. Some transport providers — such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators — may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. Children, students, their parents or caregivers will not be asked to provide proof of vaccination to access these places: early childhood education and care centres registered schools secondary schools school transport services out of school care and recreation programmes. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask when accessing services for basic needs. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Retail advice under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Health providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz. Advice for health providers under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | health.govt.nz (external link) Aged care providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz COVID-19: Aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Shops and close-proximity businesses Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses such as hairdressers can open at Red with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Red. The number of people allowed inside a business depends on how large the premises is. My Vaccine Pass is no longer required, but businesses can choose to ask to view yours as a condition of entry. You must wear a face mask indoors when visiting shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses. --- Section Separator --- Shops, including outdoor markets, banks and takeaway-only businesses, can open at Red. The number of people allowed at a retail outlet depends on how large the premises is. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Defined spaces and capacity limits | business.govt.nz (external link) Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, though this does not change how many people can be there. If they do, they can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the shop. You will always be able to access basic needs like food. Supermarkets and dairies are not allowed to stop you from shopping there based on your vaccination status. Access to basic needs at Red --- Section Separator --- Examples of close-proximity businesses include hairdressers and beauty salons. You should keep 1 metre apart from other customers and workers, except when close contact is required to provide the service. Businesses may have additional restrictions under Red, for example, some hairdressers may choose to not provide refreshments. Check with the business before you go. These rules also apply to people providing close-proximity services in people’s homes — for example, mobile hairdressers. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask when visiting shops, indoor markets, banks, takeaway-only businesses and close-proximity businesses. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Workers at close-proximity businesses must wear face masks. At a close-proximity business you may be able to remove your face mask if you could not receive the service if you left it on. An example is having a beard trim. Check with the staff before you take your face mask off. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more information at business.govt.nz. Advice for retailers | business.govt.nz. (external link) Close-proximity businesses can find more  information at business.govt.nz. Guidelines for close-proximity services | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Trades and home services You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Tradespeople must wear a face mask. Do not invite tradespeople into your home if you are unwell, are isolating, or waiting for a COVID-19 test result. --- Section Separator --- Examples of trades and home services are: getting home appliances fixed, like your fridge utility services, like gas and power cleaning for people who need assistance because of sickness or disability gardening services getting internet or other services installed or fixed locksmiths vet and pest management services. While they are inside your house it is strongly recommended you: keep 1 metre apart from them, and wear a face mask. Tradespeople must wear a face mask when inside people’s homes. --- Section Separator --- Do not invite tradespeople or home service providers into your home if you: have been told to self-isolate are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test are unwell What to do if you are told to self-isolate Stay home if you are sick --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Sport and recreation You can play and watch sport and recreation at Red. --- Section Separator --- Indoor sports events are limited to 200 people Outdoor sports events have no capacity limits. Gyms, indoor recreation facilities and swimming pools can open. Gym staff must wear a face mask, except when they are instructing a class and can maintain a 2-metre distance from others. --- Section Separator --- You can attend sports events and play sport at Red. Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities can open at Red with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can attend sports events and play sport at Red. Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities can open at Red with restrictions.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Sport and recreation Recreation Indoor recreation facilities can open at Red with restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- Gyms and indoor recreation facilities can open with up to 200 people . Swimming pools can open. Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead with no limits . Customers do not need to wear a face mask. Gym staff must wear a face mask, except when they are instructing a class and can maintain a 2-metre distance from others. --- Section Separator --- Gyms and indoor recreation facilities, such as dance studios, yoga studios, health clubs, bowling alleys and ice skating rinks, can open. My Vaccine Pass requirements have been removed, but businesses can choose to follow them and ask to see your My Vaccine Pass. Customers do not need to wear a face mask. Gym staff must wear a face mask, except when they are instructing a class and can maintain a 2-metre distance from others. Gyms and indoor recreation facilities can have up to 200 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space at any time. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure a gym or indoor recreation facility complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Defined spaces at Red Public recreation facilities will follow the guidelines for public facilities. Public facilities at Red --- Section Separator --- Public swimming pools can open. If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Red Indoor and outdoor swimming pools at private facilities can open. This includes saunas and steam rooms. Learn to swim classes can continue. You do not need to wear a face mask at a swimming pool. Participants in classes do not have to physically distance. All other swimmers should keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Swimming can have up to 100 people . It is the responsibility of the facility to ensure a swimming pool complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead at Red. Face masks are not required. Physical distancing is not required. There are no limits to how many people can be present . --- Section Separator --- Parks, playgrounds, sports grounds and other outdoor recreation facilities such as skate parks can open to everyone. Private clubs such as golf or tennis clubs that are not members-only indoor exercise facilities, can choose to restrict their facilities to vaccinated people only. Contact your local club to find out how they are operating. Physical distancing is encouraged. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an outdoor recreation facility, follow the rules for: events at Red , or gatherings at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can travel for recreation — including overnight camping trips and trips to your bach or holiday home. Travel at Red --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Entertainment, recreation and exercise guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Sport and recreation Sport You can attend sports events and play sport at Red. --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor sports events can go ahead Indoor sports events are limited to 200 people. Outdoor sports events have no limit . --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community sport, like organised social touch rugby, can go ahead at Red. There is no capacity limit for outdoor venues. Spectators should remain 2 metres apart from players. If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Red --- Section Separator --- Organised indoor sport, for example at a stadium or indoor arena, can go ahead at Red. There can be up to 200 people based on 1-metre distancing , in a defined space at the venue at any time. As there can be multiple defined spaces, this means: you can have multiple groups of spectators — they need to be 2 metres from any other group, and multiple games running at once — they must be 2 metres away from other groups. Defined spaces at Red The limit does not include staff at the venue. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places when you must wear a face mask. We recommend you wear a face mask whenever you leave your home. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Sports clubs can find more detailed information on sportnz.org.nz: COVID-19 overview | sportnz.org.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Travel and accommodation Accommodation Accommodation can open at Red without restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Accommodation can open at Red. There are no capacity limits. My Vaccine Pass is no longer required, but accommodation businesses can choose to limit access to their premises to people with a My Vaccine Pass. Do not travel if you are unwell, isolating or waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. You must wear a face mask if you are indoors at a food and drink business attached to an accommodation provider. You can take your face mask off when seated and to eat and drink. We encourage you to wear a face mask in communal areas. --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass requirements have been removed, but accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the accommodation. This includes: cabins campgrounds backpackers boarding houses hotels and motels seasonal worker accommodation AirBnB properties tertiary accommodation. It does not include private residences. If you are holding an event or a gathering at accommodation, follow the relevant advice: Events at Red Gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- Accommodation services can provide food and drink. Customer-facing food and beverage services, other than room service, must follow the food and beverage rules. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask if you are indoors at a food and drink business attached to an accommodation provider. You can take your face mask off when seated and to eat and drink. We encourage you to wear a face mask in communal areas. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Travel and accommodation Travel You can travel around New Zealand at Red. There are no boundaries under the traffic lights. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at all traffic light settings. There are no boundaries under the traffic lights. You can travel for any reason. Do not travel if you are unwell, isolating or waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Unless your transport provider requires it, you do not need a My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test to travel. You must wear a face mask on all flights and public transport, in taxi and ride-share services — unless you are exempt. --- Section Separator --- There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, or at bus stops or train stations. --- Section Separator --- Some transport providers may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. Free rapid antigen tests (RATs) are available at participating community pharmacies. The tests are available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company. More information about free rapid antigen testing --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport in taxis and ride-share services on Cook Strait ferries at arrival and departure points that are indoors, for example inside airports and terminals on all Kiwirail services — but you can take your face mask off when you are in your seat inside your allocated carriage. If you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above, you must wear a face mask on public transport and Ministry of Education funded school transport (school buses). When you must wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 while you are away from home, you and the people you are travelling with will need to isolate. You can only return home if you have a private vehicle, and you do not need to use public transport — such as a ferry — to get home. Make sure you have a plan in case this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Find out about requirements for travelling to, transiting, and departing New Zealand. International travel --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Resources for businesses Resources for businesses to help them operate safely at each of the traffic light settings. --- Section Separator --- Businesses and workplaces are no longer required to display a QR code poster, but can choose to do so. Get your QR code poster (external link) Manage and reprint your QR code posters (external link) More information about NZ COVID Tracer QR codes | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find advice on operating safely under each of the traffic light settings at business.govt.nz. COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Businesses can choose whether to require customers to have My Vaccine Passes as a condition of entry. If businesses choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements, they must sight or verify customers' passes. Businesses can use the free NZ Pass Verifier app to check passes faster and easier. More information on NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) Use our COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what support may be available for you and your employees. COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for businesses | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Download and print posters to help keep your workplace safe.
Home Traffic lights Traffic lights map Search or browse for your local traffic light setting. --- Section Separator --- What you need to do under each traffic light setting Life at Red Life at Orange Life at Green --- Section Separator --- Waka Kotahi’s Journey Planner uses the latest travel time information, traffic cameras, and updates on delays, roadworks and road closures to help you plan your journey. Use Journey Planner (external link)
