Keeping up to date with your vaccinations is important, even if you have already had COVID-19. What you need to know Travel to NZ If you have COVID-19 Household Contacts Self-isolation rules Face masks Get free RATs Latest case numbers Posters Alternate formats --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- Information about what to do if you are planning to travel to New Zealand. Find out how to get an updated My Vaccine Pass, your My Vaccine Record or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. --- Section Separator --- Information about what to do if you are planning to travel to New Zealand. Find out how to get an updated My Vaccine Pass, your My Vaccine Record or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home About our COVID-19 response Independent Advisory Groups COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group --- Section Separator --- The group provides advice to the Minister for COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. This can include: considering COVID-19 response efforts across the Government’s system-wide response, such as border, managed isolation and quarantine, and public health response giving an ongoing independent perspective on the robustness of the COVID-19 response system and opportunities for continuous improvement on specific aspects of the response. The aim is to give the Minister assurance that learnings have been recorded and implemented by agencies. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] Sir Brian Roche, Chair Dr Dale Bramley Dr Debbie Ryan Prof Phillip Hill Rob Fyfe Documents from COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group are proactively released to the public. Proactive releases One of the recommendations from the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group's review of the Auckland February 2021 outbreak was for all recommendations from that review and from previous reports to be actively monitored, with regular progress reports. Read the progress reports --- Section Separator --- The group provides advice to the Minister for COVID-19 Response on specific areas of the response where improvements could be made with the benefit of alternative and independent perspectives. This can include: considering COVID-19 response efforts across the Government’s system-wide response, such as border, managed isolation and quarantine, and public health response giving an ongoing independent perspective on the robustness of the COVID-19 response system and opportunities for continuous improvement on specific aspects of the response. The aim is to give the Minister assurance that learnings have been recorded and implemented by agencies. Read the Terms of Reference [PDF, 207 KB] --- Section Separator --- Sir Brian Roche, Chair Dr Dale Bramley Dr Debbie Ryan Prof Phillip Hill Rob Fyfe --- Section Separator --- Documents from COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group are proactively released to the public. Proactive releases --- Section Separator --- One of the recommendations from the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group's review of the Auckland February 2021 outbreak was for all recommendations from that review and from previous reports to be actively monitored, with regular progress reports. Read the progress reports --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Community Panel
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework --- Section Separator --- Alert Level Orders are published on the New Zealand Legislation website | New Zealand Legislation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level Orders are published on the New Zealand Legislation website | New Zealand Legislation (external link) --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Reviews and audits --- Section Separator --- Rapid Review of Initial Operating Model and Organisational Arrangments for the National Response to COVID-19 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Second rapid review of the COVID-19 all-of-government response [PDF, 1.7 MB] Dr Ayesha Verrall’s audit of the contact tracing system (external link) Draft Report of the Advisory Committee to Oversee the Implementation of the New Zealand COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy — September 2020 [PDF, 230 KB] Progress against the review of surveillance, testing and contact tracing [PDF, 1.2 MB] Review of New Zealand's COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy [PDF, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Testing Advisory Notes [PDF, 752 KB] Reports provided by members to the co-chairs [PDF, 2.2 MB] Declaration of Interests — Rawiri McKree Jansen [PDF, 918 KB] Declaration of Interests — Dr Apisalome Talemaitoga [PDF, 1.3 MB] Declaration of Interests — Philip Hill [PDF, 618 KB] Reports tracking the progress made on recommendations to improve New Zealand’s COVID-19 response system. See progress reports --- Section Separator --- Rapid Review of Initial Operating Model and Organisational Arrangments for the National Response to COVID-19 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Second rapid review of the COVID-19 all-of-government response [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Dr Ayesha Verrall’s audit of the contact tracing system (external link) Draft Report of the Advisory Committee to Oversee the Implementation of the New Zealand COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy — September 2020 [PDF, 230 KB] Progress against the review of surveillance, testing and contact tracing [PDF, 1.2 MB] Review of New Zealand's COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy [PDF, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Testing Advisory Notes [PDF, 752 KB] Reports provided by members to the co-chairs [PDF, 2.2 MB] Declaration of Interests — Rawiri McKree Jansen [PDF, 918 KB] Declaration of Interests — Dr Apisalome Talemaitoga [PDF, 1.3 MB] Declaration of Interests — Philip Hill [PDF, 618 KB] --- Section Separator --- Reports tracking the progress made on recommendations to improve New Zealand’s COVID-19 response system. See progress reports --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Reviews and audits Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response --- Section Separator --- One of the recommendations from the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group's review of the Auckland February 2021 outbreak was for all recommendations from that review and from previous reports to be actively monitored, with regular progress reports. The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group undertook a stocktake of reviews and coordinated a system view of the recommendations. The COVID-19 Group monitors progress against recommended improvements. These progress reports intend to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 response system learns and adapts over time. Recommendations have been grouped into 10 themes to report on the system trends: Policy and process review Data, information, privacy and technology System governance, accountabilities and leadership Workforce sustainability and resilience Communication and engagement Equity and Te Tiriti o Waitangi Infection prevention and control Strategy, planning, economic and assurance Equipment, for example facilities and capital pieces Other. --- Section Separator --- One of the recommendations from the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group's review of the Auckland February 2021 outbreak was for all recommendations from that review and from previous reports to be actively monitored, with regular progress reports. The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet’s COVID-19 Group undertook a stocktake of reviews and coordinated a system view of the recommendations. The COVID-19 Group monitors progress against recommended improvements. These progress reports intend to provide assurance to Ministers, and the public, that the COVID-19 response system learns and adapts over time. --- Section Separator --- Recommendations have been grouped into 10 themes to report on the system trends: Policy and process review Data, information, privacy and technology System governance, accountabilities and leadership Workforce sustainability and resilience Communication and engagement Equity and Te Tiriti o Waitangi Infection prevention and control Strategy, planning, economic and assurance Equipment, for example facilities and capital pieces Other. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Reporting of the progress against recommendations to improve the COVID-19 response Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About this site Contact us Find contact information for the COVID-19 group at the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. I am looking for... Communication and language support COVID-19 support Financial support Report a breach Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- You can find guidance and submit an Official Information Request to the COVID-19 Group on the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet website: How to make an Official Information Act request (external link) Find information and advice translated into different languages: Translations Find information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs: Alternate formats Immigration New Zealand can answer questions about travel eligibility and visa categories. Contact Immigration NZ | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you run or own a business, you can find information on the business.govt website: COVID-19: Information for businesses (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) (external link) Contact us | business.govt.nz (external link) We have a selection of posters available for in the traffic light settings available on this website. You can also get your QR code poster. Download posters Get your QR code poster (external link) All our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, can be viewed and download through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email: covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz You will need to contact the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. You can send a query through an online form on the Employment website or call them. Online form | employment.govt.nz (external link) Call: 0800 20 90 20 Call 111 immediately. If you have COVID-19, tell them when you ring. You need to contact your care co-ordinator or call Healthline. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19response@health.govt.nz There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a participating vaccination site. How to get your My Vaccine Pass There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact MIQ. You can find contact details on their website. Contact us | miq.govt.nz (external link) If you have a health concern after your vaccination, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor. You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19vaccine@health.govt.nz Visit the Work and Income website for urgent financial support and ongoing needs. You can apply for a main benefit online and check your eligibility for food assistance. Work and Income website (external link) (external link) 0800 559 009 (MSD General Line) 0800 552 002 (Seniors 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Students) In MyMSD you can check your payments, tell MSD about changes and apply for a benefit or NZ Super: Use MyMSD (external link) You can also use the COVID-19 financial support tool on this website to see what support is available to you. Use the financial support tool If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: traffic light settings vaccination or testing requirements for workers. Report a breach online (external link) Face masks If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements How to report false or misleading information that you see can be found on this website. Report false or misleading information Contact the COVID-19 media team: Email: covid19media@dpmc.govt.nz The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. NZ COVID Tracer app | health.govt.nz (external link) Businesses and workplaces are no longer required to display a QR code poster, but can choose to do so. There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Get your QR code poster (external link) If you have questions or feedback about the app, QR code posters or any problems using them, you will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Call 0800 800 606 You must enable JavaScript to submit this form --- Section Separator --- Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. If you are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in alternate formats, including: New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print Audio Braille Audio description. Alternate formats Many government agencies have language support available if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages. Translations --- Section Separator --- If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach --- Section Separator --- You can contact the COVID-19 Group by using our online form above or sending a letter to us. If you are sending us feedback about Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage that you have feedback about. Postal address: COVID-19 Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. You might be interested in Child vaccinations International travel vaccination certificates How to use My Covid Record About Novavax Vaccine advice for disabled people COVID-19 vaccine data --- Section Separator --- Talk to the COVID Vaccination Healthline 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. Call 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. Some workers must be vaccinated against COVID-19 to go to work. Find more information on who needs to be vaccinated. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. Some workers must be vaccinated against COVID-19 to go to work. Find more information on who needs to be vaccinated. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Nanogirl: The COVID-19 vaccine explained, for kids Boosters and Omicron — Your questions answered Dr Jin Russell — 4 reasons to get tamariki immunised against COVID-19 Dr Owen Sinclair — The risks and benefits of immunisation for children Jaki's story — Vaccinating people with needle phobias Dr Nikki Turner — Vaccines and pregnancy --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers.
We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Answering your questions Why do I need a booster? Can I get Novavax? Should I get vaccinated if I am pregnant? Does the vaccine work against Omicron? Is it safe for children? Will I get side effects? Will the vaccine stop transmission? --- Section Separator --- Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. In the clinical trials it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against Omicron, a booster is likely offer greater protection by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. We are encouraging everyone who is eligible to get a free booster now. --- Section Separator --- Dr Ashley Bloomfield on Omicron and boosters 4 reasons to get tamariki vaccinated against COVID-19 NZ Vaccine Facts: How the vaccine works against variants of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines needed to be rolled out quickly, but that does not mean safety was compromised. The Pfizer vaccine we are using in New Zealand is held to the same high safety standards as any other medicine. COVID-19 vaccines are the most well-studied vaccines ever made. More than 50% of the world's population have had a COVID-19 vaccine. Nearly 4 million people in Aotearoa have had their second Pfizer vaccine, and over 2.5 million people have had a booster. This means we have lots of data to show the Pfizer vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety. --- Section Separator --- Dr Nikki Turner on the safety of vaccines during pregnancy Dr Ashley Bloomfield on safety and development of the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- You might feel nervous about getting the vaccine, which is normal. A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm, and it will be over very fast. You will then need to stay for at least 15 minutes so we can make sure you do not have an immediate reaction. --- Section Separator --- What to expect if you have a needle phobia How to get a vaccine and are there side effects? Vaccinator Priscilla shares her story about vaccinating her community --- Section Separator --- If you have another question, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccines used in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks or more. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients. How the Pfizer vaccine works | Ministry of Health (external link) The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and over who either wants a different option or if you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine. It is a viral vector vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 4 weeks or more. You should not get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you: have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients have had a major blood clot at the same time as having low levels of platelets (thrombocytopenia) after receiving any COVID-19 vaccine have had Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS — a condition causing fluid leakage from small blood vessels). COVID-19 vaccines: Getting AstraZeneca | Ministry of Health (external link) AstraZeneca will no longer be available from 5 September 2022. If you are planning to get an AstraZeneca booster, your appointment must be on or before 4 September. The Novavax (Nuvaxovid) COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and over who wants a different COVID-19 vaccine option. It is a protein-based vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks. Novavax is available as a booster at least 6 months after completing the primary course of any COVID-19 vaccine used in New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines: Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend approving a medicine for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. How COVID-19 vaccines are assessed | Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects when you get a COVID-19 vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines NZ Vaccine Facts COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials and testing | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks or more. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap between doses is 8 weeks or more. You should not get the Pfizer vaccine if you have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients. How the Pfizer vaccine works | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and over who either wants a different option or if you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine. It is a viral vector vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 4 weeks or more. You should not get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you: have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients have had a major blood clot at the same time as having low levels of platelets (thrombocytopenia) after receiving any COVID-19 vaccine have had Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS — a condition causing fluid leakage from small blood vessels). COVID-19 vaccines: Getting AstraZeneca | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- AstraZeneca will no longer be available from 5 September 2022. If you are planning to get an AstraZeneca booster, your appointment must be on or before 4 September. --- Section Separator --- The Novavax (Nuvaxovid) COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and over who wants a different COVID-19 vaccine option. It is a protein-based vaccine. You need 2 doses. The standard gap between doses is 3 weeks. Novavax is available as a booster at least 6 months after completing the primary course of any COVID-19 vaccine used in New Zealand. COVID-19 vaccines: Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend approving a medicine for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. How COVID-19 vaccines are assessed | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects when you get a COVID-19 vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials and testing | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine advice for disabled people This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. Children and young people with disabilities can get vaccinated at some accessible sites with their whānau. Learn more about vaccinations for children If you are aged 18 and over, and it has been 3 months since your last dose, you can book your booster now. Young people aged 16 and 17 can get a free Pfizer booster 6 months after completing their primary course. Learn more about booster doses --- Section Separator --- If you are worried about getting the vaccine, you can talk to a trained advisor in the Healthline disability team. The team is made up of people who have experience of a disability themselves, or who have worked with the disabled community. They will support you, your whānau or someone you care for and answer any questions you may have about: accessibility arrangements and getting mobility assistance at different vaccination centres getting your vaccination safely home vaccinations any effects the vaccine may have on you or your medications. The disability team is available Monday to Friday, from 8am to 8pm. Call: 0800 28 29 26 and push 2 Free text: 8988 Email: accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz --- Section Separator --- Using My Vaccine Pass is no longer a legal requirement, but some businesses, events and venues may choose to still use it. This means you may need to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter some places. You can still receive essential care even if you do not have a My Vaccine Pass. Your care and support workers must continue to be fully vaccinated and boosted. This is so they can keep you safe, and reduce the risk of passing COVID-19 to you. All health workers also need to be fully vaccinated and boosted. Find out more about the changes to My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- If you have decided you want to get the vaccine, it is easy to get vaccinated. You can get your vaccination at: an accessible site your doctor or local pharmacy any other vaccination centre near you. You can also talk to, text or email a trained advisor to discuss whether a home vaccination is right for you. Some vaccination centres are fully accessible. Your family, whānau and support workers are also welcome to get their vaccinations with you. Map of vaccination centres around Aotearoa New Zealand | karawhiua.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can book your vaccination by: calling the COVID Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and pushing '2' to speak to the disability team. The COVID Healthline is open from 8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday. using the free text option on 8988 . emailing accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz using Book My Vaccine (external link) . The website is accessible and can be used with a screen reader. The disability team can also help you book an appointment for your tamariki at an accessible site. --- Section Separator --- You can take a support person with you when you get your vaccination. This can be a carer, or someone else you trust. When you get to the vaccination site, you will need to sign in. If you need an NZSL interpreter or information in an accessible format, please ask. When it is your time to get vaccinated, the staff will ask you whether it is okay to give you the vaccine. If you say yes, this is called consent. If you cannot give consent, someone who is allowed to make decisions for you can give consent for you. The vaccinator may also ask you questions about how you are feeling, and what medication you take. It is normal to feel scared or worried. Ask the vaccinator if you have any questions. You will need to wait for 15 minutes after your vaccination. If this is hard for you, ask if you can wait somewhere else. --- Section Separator --- You can choose to get the vaccine. You can say yes or no or ask for help making your decision. For disabled people or people with an impairment, the journey to get vaccinated may look a little different. We have created the Manaakitanga Journey online tool to help support disabled people to get vaccinated. The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [DOCX, 66 KB] The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [PDF, 539 KB] The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [PNG, 1 MB] Toolkit for organisations working with disabled people [PDF, 2.5 MB] Read our answers to some of the most commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine Read vaccine advice if you have a health condition Use the decision making tool to help. You can fill in the tool yourself and take it with you to your vaccination appointment. Make a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) Talk to your whānau or a trusted support person. Talk to your doctor. Your doctor is the health professional who knows you best. You might want to ask your doctor questions about the COVID-19 vaccine — for example how the vaccine may affect any health problems you have, or if there are any risks for you. If you are supporting someone with a disability to make a decision about getting the COVID-19 vaccine, you can use one of the supported decision making tools. Choose the guidance tool or combination of tools that best suits the person you are supporting. Tools for supporting disabled people to make a decision about the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get your COVID-19 vaccination Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. What you need to know Boosters Child vaccinations Vaccine side effects If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Vaccine advice for disabled people --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 or over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Children under 5 cannot get vaccinated for COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines are not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. Note: AstraZeneca will no longer be available from 5 September 2022. If you are planning to get an AstraZeneca booster, your appointment must be on or before 4 September. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can get a free booster if you are aged 16 or over and have completed your primary course of the vaccine. For most people, the primary course is 2 doses. You can get a Pfizer booster 6 months after completing your primary course. You can get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca booster 3 months after completing your primary course, or a Novavax booster 6 months after completing your primary course. Note: AstraZeneca will no longer be available from 5 September 2022. If you are planning to get an AstraZeneca booster, your appointment must be on or before 4 September. It is recommended you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. Current evidence shows your protection against infection after 2 doses slowly decreases over time. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. Book your booster --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It can show you where vaccination sites are, how soon you can get an appointment, and which vaccine types are available. Appointment availability map | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz The COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Call: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- You will need your booking reference to reschedule or cancel an appointment online. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. Cancel or change your booking online | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) Call: 0800 28 29 26
Home COVID-19 vaccines Side effects --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any of these new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is ‘skipping beats’ If you feel any of these symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor — there will be no charge for the consultation. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111, and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | Ministry of Health (external link) If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM | New Zealand Pharmacovigilance Centre (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. --- Section Separator --- There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any of these new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is ‘skipping beats’ If you feel any of these symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor — there will be no charge for the consultation. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111, and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. --- Section Separator --- Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. --- Section Separator --- If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM | New Zealand Pharmacovigilance Centre (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine passes and certificates Vaccinations and work COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine passes and certificates Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. --- Section Separator --- Find out when to use an International Travel Vaccination Pass, My Vaccine Pass or COVID-19 vaccination record as proof of your vaccination status. Find out how to use My Covid Record to get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate, My Vaccine Pass and COVID-19 vaccination record. --- Section Separator --- Find out when to use an International Travel Vaccination Pass, My Vaccine Pass or COVID-19 vaccination record as proof of your vaccination status. Find out how to use My Covid Record to get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate, My Vaccine Pass and COVID-19 vaccination record.
Find out when to use an International Travel Vaccination Pass, My Vaccine Pass or COVID-19 vaccination record as proof of your vaccination status. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling overseas and must show proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status, you need an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. This certificate is available to anyone aged 5 or over who has had any dose of a COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand. We also recommend downloading a copy of your COVID-19 vaccination records from My Covid Record to use alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your International Travel Vaccination Certificate has a QR code with information about the COVID-19 vaccine doses you have had in New Zealand. The details on it must match your passport — you can review these when you request the certificate. The International Travel Vaccination Certificate complies with EU Digital COVID Certificate standards. It is valid for 12 months. Get an International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is a record of your COVID-19 vaccination that you might be asked to show within New Zealand. While there is no legal requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Pass, some may choose to ask for them as a condition of entry. You can get an updated My Vaccine Pass if you are aged 12 or over and are up to date with your COVID-19 vaccination or have a temporary medical exemption. My Vaccine Passes are not required or available for children aged 5 to 11. It is valid for 6 months. If you are aged 18 years or over — you need 2 primary doses, plus a booster. If you are aged 12 to 17 years — you need 2 primary doses. Get a My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- Businesses can choose to require people to show their My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry. It is up to each business to decide what is appropriate, taking into account the health and safety of their workers and customers. Requiring My Vaccine Passes for entry | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- It can be used: as evidence of your vaccinations if required by an employer — including under the New Zealand vaccine mandate alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your vaccination record cannot be used instead of a My Vaccine Pass or an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your COVID-19 vaccination record includes: batch numbers dose number vaccine type any overseas vaccinations you have requested be added to your health record. Get a COVID-19 vaccination record --- Section Separator --- You can download your International Travel Vaccination Certificate, My Vaccine Pass or COVID-19 vaccination record from My Covid Record. How to use My Covid Record You can get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate or My Vaccine Pass by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline. They are available between 8am and 8pm, 7 days a week. Call: 0800 28 29 26 , choose option 4 You can get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate or My Vaccine Pass at some participating vaccination sites. Contact them first to confirm if they offer this service. COVID-19 vaccination sites | Healthpoint (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine passes and certificates Proof of COVID-19 vaccination status How to use My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- Anyone aged 12 or over who has accessed health or disability services in New Zealand can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: driver licence passport birth certificate citizenship certificate. An Australian: passport birth certificate. Sign up for My Covid Record (external link) 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the 'Passes and certificates' section, select 'Request pass or certificate'. 3. The 'Select who this pass or certificate is for' will open. Select either 'Myself' or 'Someone else'. 4. The 'Select a pass or certificate' option will appear. Select 'My Vaccine Pass' or 'International Travel Vaccination Certificate'. 5. You will then be prompted to enter details, including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your International Travel Vaccination Certificate or My Vaccine Pass by email within 24 hours. You can print a physical copy or save it to a digital device, like your phone. To save it to your phone, click "Add to Apple Wallet" or "GPay — Save to phone" in the email you receive. If the pass does not immediately add, check you are using the Safari browser (iOS) or the Chrome browser (Android). 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. Select 'Get a copy of your vaccinations'. 3. You will be prompted to enter your email address. 4. Your COVID-19 vaccination record will be emailed to you within 24 hours. --- Section Separator --- Anyone aged 12 or over who has accessed health or disability services in New Zealand can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: driver licence passport birth certificate citizenship certificate. An Australian: passport birth certificate. Sign up for My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the 'Passes and certificates' section, select 'Request pass or certificate'. 3. The 'Select who this pass or certificate is for' will open. Select either 'Myself' or 'Someone else'. 4. The 'Select a pass or certificate' option will appear. Select 'My Vaccine Pass' or 'International Travel Vaccination Certificate'. 5. You will then be prompted to enter details, including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your International Travel Vaccination Certificate or My Vaccine Pass by email within 24 hours. You can print a physical copy or save it to a digital device, like your phone. To save it to your phone, click "Add to Apple Wallet" or "GPay — Save to phone" in the email you receive. If the pass does not immediately add, check you are using the Safari browser (iOS) or the Chrome browser (Android). --- Section Separator --- 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. Select 'Get a copy of your vaccinations'. 3. You will be prompted to enter your email address. 4. Your COVID-19 vaccination record will be emailed to you within 24 hours. --- Section Separator --- Proof of COVID-19 vaccination status How to use My Covid Record How to use My Covid Record
Home International travel Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. What you need to know Vaccination requirements Complete the traveller declaration Testing after arriving in NZ Transiting through NZ Proof of vaccination for travel If you get COVID-19 while visiting NZ --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's air border is fully open. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand by air. New Zealand's maritime border is now open. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand by sea. Advice for New Zealanders and residents in New Zealand who want to travel overseas.
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand by air New Zealand’s borders are fully open. Find out what requirements you need to meet to enter New Zealand by air. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's borders are now fully open to visitors from anywhere in the world. The requirements on this page apply to travellers entering New Zealand by air. Maritime passengers and crew should follow our guidance on travelling to New Zealand by sea. Find out what you need to do enter New Zealand by sea --- Section Separator --- Use our step-by-step guide to help you plan your travel and get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand. New Zealand's borders are now fully open to visitors from anywhere in the world. Most travellers must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- All travellers must complete the traveller declaration before travelling to New Zealand. Most travellers must take 2 rapid antigen tests after arriving in New Zealand. If you have recently arrived in New Zealand and test positive for COVID-19, you must self-isolate for 7 days. --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link)
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand by air Preparing to travel to New Zealand by air A step-by-step guide on what you need to do to travel to New Zealand by air and meet COVID-19 requirements.
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand by air Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You must take 2 RATs after you arrive if you are: travelling to New Zealand for a holiday or for work a New Zealand citizen or resident returning home. You will be given a pack of rapid antigen tests (RATs), with instructions on how to use them at the airport. You can find more information about the testing requirements on the COVID-19 Health Hub. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand | Health Hub (external link) You do not need to take another test, but you should check any pre-departure testing requirements of the country you are travelling to. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. Travellers arriving from Niue do not need to self-test on arrival if they have taken a direct flight to New Zealand. You must report both RAT results, whether you test negative or positive. You will receive an email from the Ministry of Health with instructions on how to report your result. You can also call the COVID-19 Test Results line with your result. The call centre is open from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Call the COVID-19 Test Results line on: 0800 432 010 — if you are calling from a New Zealand phone number +64 9 954 6118 — if you are using an international SIM You may have to pay for your call if you are using an international SIM — check with your phone provider. If you return a positive RAT result, or the result is invalid you must self-isolate at the place you are staying while you are in New Zealand. You must also get a PCR test to confirm your result. If your PCR is positive you must self-isolate for 7 days. If your PCR is negative, you do not need to continue to isolate. This is because a PCR result is more accurate than a RAT result. Isolation means staying in your home or holiday accommodation. Do not go to shops or any other public places. Follow the self-isolation advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub. If you have travelled to New Zealand by air, the people travelling with you will also need to isolate. If you are a visitor to New Zealand, you may need to pay for any extra accommodation costs. We strongly encourage everyone travelling to New Zealand to get comprehensive travel insurance which includes COVID-19 cover. Self-isolation requirements for travellers | Health Hub (external link) You must get a PCR test from a community testing centre or healthcare provider if your RAT: is positive fails to show a result result is invalid. If you have reported your positive RAT, you will receive an email with a form for a PCR test. You can print the form or show it on your mobile device when you go to the community centre or healthcare provider. You may be asked for your National Health Index (NHI) number when booking your PCR test. If you are not a New Zealand citizen or resident, the testing centre will create you one. PCR tests for overseas travellers are free. PCR tests if you have recently arrived in New Zealand | Health Hub (external link) If you have travelled to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay and test positive after being here for 7 days or longer, follow the advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub. You must: isolate for 7 days — you should have a plan for this source your own accommodation and pay for this pay for any healthcare costs. Self-isolation requirements for travellers | Health Hub (external link) Advice if you have COVID-19 | Health Hub (external link) If you or someone you are travelling with tests positive for COVID-19 while in New Zealand, you will not be able to return home or travel onwards until you have completed your 7 days of isolation. You should also check with your airline about any regulations they may have. --- Section Separator --- You must take 2 RATs after you arrive if you are: travelling to New Zealand for a holiday or for work a New Zealand citizen or resident returning home. You will be given a pack of rapid antigen tests (RATs), with instructions on how to use them at the airport. You can find more information about the testing requirements on the COVID-19 Health Hub. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand | Health Hub (external link) You do not need to take another test, but you should check any pre-departure testing requirements of the country you are travelling to. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. Travellers arriving from Niue do not need to self-test on arrival if they have taken a direct flight to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- You must report both RAT results, whether you test negative or positive. You will receive an email from the Ministry of Health with instructions on how to report your result. You can also call the COVID-19 Test Results line with your result. The call centre is open from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Call the COVID-19 Test Results line on: 0800 432 010 — if you are calling from a New Zealand phone number +64 9 954 6118 — if you are using an international SIM You may have to pay for your call if you are using an international SIM — check with your phone provider. --- Section Separator --- If you return a positive RAT result, or the result is invalid you must self-isolate at the place you are staying while you are in New Zealand. You must also get a PCR test to confirm your result. If your PCR is positive you must self-isolate for 7 days. If your PCR is negative, you do not need to continue to isolate. This is because a PCR result is more accurate than a RAT result. Isolation means staying in your home or holiday accommodation. Do not go to shops or any other public places. Follow the self-isolation advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub. If you have travelled to New Zealand by air, the people travelling with you will also need to isolate. If you are a visitor to New Zealand, you may need to pay for any extra accommodation costs. We strongly encourage everyone travelling to New Zealand to get comprehensive travel insurance which includes COVID-19 cover. Self-isolation requirements for travellers | Health Hub (external link) You must get a PCR test from a community testing centre or healthcare provider if your RAT: is positive fails to show a result result is invalid. If you have reported your positive RAT, you will receive an email with a form for a PCR test. You can print the form or show it on your mobile device when you go to the community centre or healthcare provider. You may be asked for your National Health Index (NHI) number when booking your PCR test. If you are not a New Zealand citizen or resident, the testing centre will create you one. PCR tests for overseas travellers are free. PCR tests if you have recently arrived in New Zealand | Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have travelled to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay and test positive after being here for 7 days or longer, follow the advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub. You must: isolate for 7 days — you should have a plan for this source your own accommodation and pay for this pay for any healthcare costs. Self-isolation requirements for travellers | Health Hub (external link) Advice if you have COVID-19 | Health Hub (external link) If you or someone you are travelling with tests positive for COVID-19 while in New Zealand, you will not be able to return home or travel onwards until you have completed your 7 days of isolation. You should also check with your airline about any regulations they may have. --- Section Separator --- Preparing to travel to New Zealand by air Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand by air Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must have had a f ull course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine to enter New Zealand. Booster doses are not required. Vaccination requirements apply to: passengers arriving by air crew and passengers on super yachts or recreational boats arriving by sea crew and passengers on cruise ships. If you are unvaccinated you cannot enter New Zealand — unless you are exempt or do not need to have proof of vaccination. Who does not need proof of vaccination You need to provide proof of your vaccinations. If you arrive by air, you will need to upload proof of your vaccinations to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. If you are arriving on a cruise ship, follow the instructions of your cruise operator. New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) You must provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand if you are: not a New Zealand citizen or resident not an Australian citizen living in New Zealand foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand foreign maritime crew and passengers arriving in New Zealand on all recreational vessels — including cruise ships, super yachts and small craft. If you are unvaccinated, you cannot enter New Zealand. You may be able to get an exemption if you travel to New Zealand from a country with no, or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. Apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you have not been vaccinated. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you qualify for an exemption, and apply on the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an exemption | Ministry of Health (external link) If you have had 1 dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, but cannot have your next dose because you recently had COVID-19, you must provide proof. You need to get a letter from a health professional — for example, a doctor — confirming: you have recently recovered from COVID-19, and you must wait before receiving your next dose. Upload this letter to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration, along with proof of your first dose. You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen have a New Zealand residence class visa — either a permanent resident or resident visa are an Australian citizen living in New Zealand are a child aged 16 years and under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a health professional such as a doctor are a refugee arriving in New Zealand for the first time are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated have been granted a visa under the 2022 Special Ukraine Visa Policy; or if you are or were ordinarily resident in Ukraine at any point on or after 1 January 2022 are arriving from Antarctica are transiting through New Zealand are arriving in New Zealand on a trade, cargo or other specialist (Category 1) vessel. To be eligible to enter New Zealand, you must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You do not need a booster dose. You can have doses of different vaccines if that combination is approved in the country you were vaccinated. Each vaccine must be on the list of approved vaccines. You need a digital vaccine certificate or an electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have been vaccinated. Your evidence must confirm you have received a full primary course of COVID-19 vaccines and include: your name name of the vaccine or vaccines you received name of the agency that administered them name of the country where you were vaccinated date of each dose or date when you completed your primary vaccination course. If you are travelling to New Zealand by air, upload proof of your vaccinations to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. How to upload documents to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) If you need help completing the Traveller Declaration, you can contact them by phone, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Call: +64 4 9315799 — if you are calling from overseas 0800 359 269 — if you are calling from New Zealand 1800 359 269 — if you are calling from Australia Download your International Travel Vaccination Certificate from the My Covid Record website. My Covid Record (external link) Overseas vaccination certificates do not have to be translated into English. If you have an English version, or if you can easily get one, we encourage you to bring this with you. Examples of accepted vaccination certificates | New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must have had a f ull course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine to enter New Zealand. Booster doses are not required. Vaccination requirements apply to: passengers arriving by air crew and passengers on super yachts or recreational boats arriving by sea crew and passengers on cruise ships. If you are unvaccinated you cannot enter New Zealand — unless you are exempt or do not need to have proof of vaccination. Who does not need proof of vaccination You need to provide proof of your vaccinations. If you arrive by air, you will need to upload proof of your vaccinations to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. If you are arriving on a cruise ship, follow the instructions of your cruise operator. New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- You must provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand if you are: not a New Zealand citizen or resident not an Australian citizen living in New Zealand foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand foreign maritime crew and passengers arriving in New Zealand on all recreational vessels — including cruise ships, super yachts and small craft. If you are unvaccinated, you cannot enter New Zealand. You may be able to get an exemption if you travel to New Zealand from a country with no, or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. Apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you have not been vaccinated. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you qualify for an exemption, and apply on the Ministry of Health website. Apply for an exemption | Ministry of Health (external link) If you have had 1 dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, but cannot have your next dose because you recently had COVID-19, you must provide proof. You need to get a letter from a health professional — for example, a doctor — confirming: you have recently recovered from COVID-19, and you must wait before receiving your next dose. Upload this letter to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration, along with proof of your first dose. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen have a New Zealand residence class visa — either a permanent resident or resident visa are an Australian citizen living in New Zealand are a child aged 16 years and under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a health professional such as a doctor are a refugee arriving in New Zealand for the first time are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated have been granted a visa under the 2022 Special Ukraine Visa Policy; or if you are or were ordinarily resident in Ukraine at any point on or after 1 January 2022 are arriving from Antarctica are transiting through New Zealand are arriving in New Zealand on a trade, cargo or other specialist (Category 1) vessel. --- Section Separator --- To be eligible to enter New Zealand, you must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You do not need a booster dose. You can have doses of different vaccines if that combination is approved in the country you were vaccinated. Each vaccine must be on the list of approved vaccines. --- Section Separator --- You need a digital vaccine certificate or an electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have been vaccinated. Your evidence must confirm you have received a full primary course of COVID-19 vaccines and include: your name name of the vaccine or vaccines you received name of the agency that administered them name of the country where you were vaccinated date of each dose or date when you completed your primary vaccination course. If you are travelling to New Zealand by air, upload proof of your vaccinations to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. How to upload documents to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) If you need help completing the Traveller Declaration, you can contact them by phone, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Call: +64 4 9315799 — if you are calling from overseas 0800 359 269 — if you are calling from New Zealand 1800 359 269 — if you are calling from Australia Download your International Travel Vaccination Certificate from the My Covid Record website. My Covid Record (external link) Overseas vaccination certificates do not have to be translated into English. If you have an English version, or if you can easily get one, we encourage you to bring this with you. Examples of accepted vaccination certificates | New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- Preparing to travel to New Zealand by air Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand by sea New Zealand’s maritime border is fully open. Find out how to enter New Zealand by sea. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's borders are now fully open to visitors from anywhere in the world. The requirements on this page apply to maritime passengers and crew entering New Zealand by sea. Travellers entering New Zealand by air should follow our guidance on travelling to New Zealand by air. This includes travellers who enter New Zealand by air, then start a cruise in New Zealand. Find out what you need to do enter New Zealand by air --- Section Separator --- Use our step-by-step guide to help you plan your cruise to New Zealand, meet COVID-19 requirements and find advice on how to keep yourself and others safe. New Zealand's maritime border is open to foreign commercial vessels, including trade and cargo vessels. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. New Zealand's maritime border is now open to foreign registered recreational vessels — including superyachts. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand.
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand by sea Advice for commercial, trade, cargo and recreational vessels --- Section Separator --- People entering New Zealand on a foreign trade, cargo or other commercial vessel must: have a valid passport have a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) to enter New Zealand, if applicable provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test before they disembark the ship (except for approved essential tasks) and report their result. Advice for trade and cargo vessels | Ministry of Health (external link) Foreign registered recreational vessels — including super yachts — must meet Customs arrival rules. All passengers and crew must have: a valid passport a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) to enter New Zealand, if applicable proof of vaccination at least NZ$400 per month, if living on board a yacht a ticket to leave New Zealand — if departing on commercial transport. Maritime border | New Zealand Customs (external link) Apply for an NZeTA | Immigration NZ (external link) Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand --- Section Separator --- People entering New Zealand on a foreign trade, cargo or other commercial vessel must: have a valid passport have a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) to enter New Zealand, if applicable provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test before they disembark the ship (except for approved essential tasks) and report their result. Advice for trade and cargo vessels | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Foreign registered recreational vessels — including super yachts — must meet Customs arrival rules. All passengers and crew must have: a valid passport a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) to enter New Zealand, if applicable proof of vaccination at least NZ$400 per month, if living on board a yacht a ticket to leave New Zealand — if departing on commercial transport. Maritime border | New Zealand Customs (external link) --- Section Separator --- Apply for an NZeTA | Immigration NZ (external link) Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Advice for cruise ship passengers Advice for commercial, trade, cargo and recreational vessels Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand by sea Advice for cruise ship passengers A step-by-step guide on what you need to do if you are entering New Zealand on a cruise ship.
Home International travel Who can enter New Zealand --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's borders are now fully open to visitors from anywhere in the world. This includes the re-opening of the maritime border to foreign-flagged vessels — including cruise ships. The following people can enter New Zealand now from anywhere in the world and self-test on arrival: vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand citizens vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand residents vaccinated Australian citizens and permanent residents unvaccinated Australian citizens who live in New Zealand current temporary work and student visa holders with a valid visa who can still meet their visa requirements — this includes both visa holders currently offshore, and those in New Zealand who choose to travel overseas and wish to return vaccinated travellers with a border exception vaccinated travellers on a working holiday scheme vaccinated travellers from countries who do not need a visa (visa waiver visitors) vaccinated travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa category vaccinated travellers applying for a work visa in New Zealand vaccinated travellers on tourist, visitor and student visas. Find out how to enter New Zealand by air If you are unvaccinated you cannot enter New Zealand — unless you are exempt or do not need to have proof of vaccination. Who does not need proof of vaccination Visa waiver countries and territories | Immigration NZ (external link) Accredited Employer Work Visa | Immigration NZ (external link) Check if you need to apply for a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) before you travel. Apply for an NZeTA | Immigration NZ (external link) You can apply for a visitor visa to travel to New Zealand from a Pacific Island Forum country. The full list of Pacific Island Forum countries is on Immigration NZ's website. Travelling from the Pacific islands | Immigration NZ (external link) The following vessels can enter New Zealand now from anywhere in the world : foreign registered commercial vessels such as freight or cargo ships fishing vessels specialist vessels used in research and exploration foreign-state vessels with diplomatic status ferries returning to New Zealand after repair or maintenance recreational vessels — including yachts, super yachts and small craft cruise ships. Find out how to enter New Zealand by sea --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's borders are now fully open to visitors from anywhere in the world. This includes the re-opening of the maritime border to foreign-flagged vessels — including cruise ships. --- Section Separator --- The following people can enter New Zealand now from anywhere in the world and self-test on arrival: vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand citizens vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand residents vaccinated Australian citizens and permanent residents unvaccinated Australian citizens who live in New Zealand current temporary work and student visa holders with a valid visa who can still meet their visa requirements — this includes both visa holders currently offshore, and those in New Zealand who choose to travel overseas and wish to return vaccinated travellers with a border exception vaccinated travellers on a working holiday scheme vaccinated travellers from countries who do not need a visa (visa waiver visitors) vaccinated travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa category vaccinated travellers applying for a work visa in New Zealand vaccinated travellers on tourist, visitor and student visas. Find out how to enter New Zealand by air If you are unvaccinated you cannot enter New Zealand — unless you are exempt or do not need to have proof of vaccination. Who does not need proof of vaccination Visa waiver countries and territories | Immigration NZ (external link) Accredited Employer Work Visa | Immigration NZ (external link) Check if you need to apply for a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) before you travel. Apply for an NZeTA | Immigration NZ (external link) You can apply for a visitor visa to travel to New Zealand from a Pacific Island Forum country. The full list of Pacific Island Forum countries is on Immigration NZ's website. Travelling from the Pacific islands | Immigration NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- The following vessels can enter New Zealand now from anywhere in the world : foreign registered commercial vessels such as freight or cargo ships fishing vessels specialist vessels used in research and exploration foreign-state vessels with diplomatic status ferries returning to New Zealand after repair or maintenance recreational vessels — including yachts, super yachts and small craft cruise ships. Find out how to enter New Zealand by sea --- Section Separator --- Who can enter New Zealand Travel to New Zealand by air Travel to New Zealand by sea Travel from New Zealand
Home Isolation and care There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. What you need to know Financial support Looking after your mental wellbeing If you get COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- What steps to take if you have tested positive for COVID-19. If you are self-isolating because of COVID-19, help is available if you need it. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and left isolation, there are a few things you should do and be mindful of in your recovery, including Long COVID. --- Section Separator --- What steps to take if you have tested positive for COVID-19. If you are self-isolating because of COVID-19, help is available if you need it. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and left isolation, there are a few things you should do and be mindful of in your recovery, including Long COVID.
Home Isolation and care After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since a previous infection (either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms) and: you are low risk, you do not need to take another test — stay home and recover, until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms you have an underlying health condition or have COVID-19-like symptoms that are getting worse, you should seek advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. Get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months if someone you live with tests positive. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. Household Contacts Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough sore throat chest tightness chest pain difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' difficulty sleeping pins and needles dizziness joint pain muscle pain. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | Ministry of Health (external link) Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated or had your booster, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. You should wait 3 months after testing positive before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. Get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since a previous infection (either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms) and: you are low risk, you do not need to take another test — stay home and recover, until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms you have an underlying health condition or have COVID-19-like symptoms that are getting worse, you should seek advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. Get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months if someone you live with tests positive. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough sore throat chest tightness chest pain difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' difficulty sleeping pins and needles dizziness joint pain muscle pain. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated or had your booster, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. You should wait 3 months after testing positive before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. Get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19 Help when you are self-isolating Financial support
Home Isolation and care Financial support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. --- Section Separator --- Answer these questions to find out what financial support you could get. There are different support options if you are an employer, are self-employed or a sole trader, or if you are an employee. --- Section Separator --- If you or someone in your household are waiting for a COVID-19 PCR test result and need to stay home, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply to help pay you. You can also apply if you are self-employed. Your employer can get a one-off payment of $359. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. Applications for the Short-Term Absence Payment are closing soon. Only PCR tests taken on or before 22 August 2022 will be accepted. Employers can apply for this payment up to 8 weeks after your PCR test. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment | Work and Income (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you cannot work from home while you are self-isolating, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer needs to apply for you. Y ou can also apply if you are self-employed. You may also be eligible for the scheme if you or someone you care for is at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Your employer can get $600 per week if you work full time, and $359 per week if you work part time to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme | Work and Income (external link) Extra help while you are self-isolating | Work and Income (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job or you cannot work at the moment, you may be able to get help from Work and Income. Use the online tool to find out what type of help you may qualify for. Support if you are not working | Work and Income (external link) If you have lost your job because you decide not to get the COVID-19 vaccination, Work and Income may be able to help. You can: apply for benefits or other financial support ask them to help you find another job. You can get financial support from Work and Income regardless of your vaccination status. Lost job because of vaccination requirement | Work and Income (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job, cannot work or are working fewer hours, you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent, board, or the cost of owning a home power, gas, heating or water bills medical and dental costs. You do not need to be on a benefit to get financial support. Help for you and your whānau during COVID-19 | Work and Income (external link) Call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 or use their online calculator to check what you might be eligible for. Check what you might get | Ministry of Social Development (MSD) (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your employment has been affected and you are experiencing financial hardship, or you need help getting home, your embassy or consulate may be able to help. People on a temporary visa are not eligible for help from Work and Income. Contact details of your country's embassy, consulate or high commission (external link) (external link) If you are an international student and are experiencing financial hardship, we recommend you speak to your education provider or student association. They may be able to offer you free budgeting advice, or tell you about funds that are available.
Home Isolation and care Help when you are self-isolating --- Section Separator --- Most people will be able to manage self-isolation with help from whānau and friends, but there is help available for you and your household if you need it. You may be able to get: money to pay for urgent and essential costs, like food, medicine and some bills support from community groups, iwi and Pacific groups in your area, or supplies delivered to you. Anyone can request help — you do not need to be getting a benefit. Work and Income have an online form where you can request support from a community organisation for your household, or to apply for money for urgent costs. Request help from Work and Income (external link) If you prefer, you can call Work and Income's COVID-19 Welfare line for free on 0800 512 337 . It is open 8am to 5pm Monday to Friday, and 8am to 1pm Saturday, Sunday and public holidays. If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. Keep in touch with your friends and whānau , your healthcare provider, and any community groups you are in contact with. They can: check how you are feeling monitor your health check if you need basic supplies like food or medicines. It is important you answer your phone while you are self-isolating. There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. If your income has been affected Money to help with urgent costs | Work and Income (external link) If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. Find helplines to get support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support --- Section Separator --- Most people will be able to manage self-isolation with help from whānau and friends, but there is help available for you and your household if you need it. You may be able to get: money to pay for urgent and essential costs, like food, medicine and some bills support from community groups, iwi and Pacific groups in your area, or supplies delivered to you. Anyone can request help — you do not need to be getting a benefit. Work and Income have an online form where you can request support from a community organisation for your household, or to apply for money for urgent costs. Request help from Work and Income (external link) If you prefer, you can call Work and Income's COVID-19 Welfare line for free on 0800 512 337 . It is open 8am to 5pm Monday to Friday, and 8am to 1pm Saturday, Sunday and public holidays. If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- Keep in touch with your friends and whānau , your healthcare provider, and any community groups you are in contact with. They can: check how you are feeling monitor your health check if you need basic supplies like food or medicines. It is important you answer your phone while you are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. If your income has been affected Money to help with urgent costs | Work and Income (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. Find helplines to get support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19 Help when you are self-isolating Financial support
Home Isolation and care If you have COVID-19 If you have COVID-19 you need to self-isolate for at least 7 days. Find out what else you need to do. --- Section Separator --- Find detailed advice about managing your symptoms and what to do while you are self-isolating on the Ministry of Health's COVID-19 Health Hub. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have taken a rapid antigen test (RAT), report your positive result online or by calling the helpline. Online: My Covid Record (external link) Call: 0800 222 478 (choose option 3) How to report your RAT result The Ministry of Health will then send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers to confirm your positive result. This has information about self-isolation, support options, and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you had a PCR test, you will get a text message with your result. If your employer asks to see proof that you must to isolate, you can use this text message. You do not need a medical certificate from a doctor. Proof of isolation for employees and employers | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- You must self-isolate for at least 7 days while you recover. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Work out your household isolation timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Your Household Contacts will also need to isolate for 7 days, unless they have had COVID-19 in the last 3 months. Advice for your Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- You must stay at home and avoid contact with other people in your household. Find out what to do when self-isolating, including permitted reasons to leave self-isolation, and how to ventilate your home. How to self-isolate Ventilation and COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Complete the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing form using your 6-digit access code. (You can find this code in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers .) For most people, the form will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and do not complete the form within 12 hours, you will get a phone call. Contact tracing form user guides | Ministry of Health (external link) You also need to tell your close contacts you have COVID-19. This includes the people you live with, and your workplace or school. Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19 — especially if they are fully vaccinated and boosted — are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to recover at home. Symptoms for COVID-19 tend to show 2 to 5 days after a person has been infected but can take up to 14 days. Omicron causes similar symptoms to other variants. Advice on managing your COVID-19 symptoms | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) If you need advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If your symptoms get worse or you need urgent medical care, call your local healthcare provider or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 If you or the person you are caring for develops difficulty breathing, severe chest pain, fainting or becomes unconscious, call 111 immediately. Medicines to treat COVID-19 are available for people who are at risk of developing serious illness and for some people who have tested positive for COVID-19. Medicines to treat COVID-19 You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs for up to 6 weeks from the first day you develop symptoms or the date of your first positive test, whichever came first. This includes 1 follow-up check with your healthcare provider if required during those 6 weeks, once your acute episode of COVID-19 is over. After you have had the follow-up check, if you required one, and you no longer have acute COVID-19, you will then need to pay for your future visits to your doctor and prescription dispensing fees, just as you would for other medical conditions, even if it is within the 6-week period. --- Section Separator --- You can end your self-isolation 7 days after your symptoms started or you tested positive, whichever came first. You do not need to wait for an official message to leave self-isolation. You may receive a text message confirming your self-isolation period has ended. You do not need a negative RAT result to return to work or school. Some people can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. Your Household Contacts can complete their isolation at the same time as you, as long as their Day 7 test was negative and they have no new or worsening symptoms. If they test positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts You do not need to isolate as a Household Contact for 90 days from when you first tested positive if someone else in your household gets COVID-19 during this time. The chance of you being reinfected with COVID-19 in the 90 days after testing positive is low. After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can co-ordinate extra support for you if you need it. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available.
Home Isolation and care If you have COVID-19 How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Use the COVID-19 Health Hub to work out your isolation timeline. Create your isolation timeline (external link) Stay at home — do not go to work, school or any public places. Avoid contact with people in your household. For example, sleep by yourself if you can, and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face mask that covers your nose and mouth when near others. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood. You can go on your own, or with someone from your household. Do not visit any shared exercise facility, such as a swimming pool. You can get deliveries, such as food and medicine from whānau and friends or by ordering supplies online. Identify a safe drop-off point outside the house to leave supplies. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes things you touch often, like door handles, light switches and phones. Do your own laundry. Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. Ventilation and COVID-19 You can download and print posters for your home to tell people you are self-isolating: We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Do not leave the house for any reason, unless it is a permitted reason — such as urgent medical care or exercising. If you cannot work from home during this time, your employer (or you, if you are self-employed) may be able to apply for leave support. Do not prepare food for others. Do not share items with people in your household. For example, dishes, toothbrushes and towels. Do not have visitors. This includes tradespeople, unless it is an emergency. If you have a support carer, they can continue to provide essential care. If you are unwell and have symptoms, do not do strenuous, high-impact exercise. Stick to gentle, familiar exercise. Do not get a COVID-19 vaccination until you have recovered. You are allowed to leave the place you are self-isolating for the following reasons. You must always wear a mask. Do not use public transport, taxis or rideshare vehicles. You can: have any medical examination and testing required access essential health services for treatment that cannot wait until you finish self-isolation attend any court, tribunal, New Zealand Parole Board hearing or other judicial institution you are required to attend move to another place of self-isolation to protect your own or another person’s life, health, or safety visit a dying relative who is not expected to live beyond your self-isolation visit the body of a relative before a funeral or tangihanga , if you will not be able to visit the body after your self-isolation. You are allowed to exercise outside your home while self-isolating. You can exercise in your neighbourhood, but not using any shared facility, such as a swimming pool or gym. You cannot exercise with other people, unless they are part of your household. Be mindful to: keep your distance from others stick to gentle, familiar exercise — do not do anything risky where you may need rescuing carry a face mask. You do not need to wear a face mask, but you may feel more comfortable doing so. --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Use the COVID-19 Health Hub to work out your isolation timeline. Create your isolation timeline (external link) Stay at home — do not go to work, school or any public places. Avoid contact with people in your household. For example, sleep by yourself if you can, and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face mask that covers your nose and mouth when near others. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood. You can go on your own, or with someone from your household. Do not visit any shared exercise facility, such as a swimming pool. You can get deliveries, such as food and medicine from whānau and friends or by ordering supplies online. Identify a safe drop-off point outside the house to leave supplies. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes things you touch often, like door handles, light switches and phones. Do your own laundry. Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. Ventilation and COVID-19 You can download and print posters for your home to tell people you are self-isolating: We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Do not leave the house for any reason, unless it is a permitted reason — such as urgent medical care or exercising. If you cannot work from home during this time, your employer (or you, if you are self-employed) may be able to apply for leave support. Do not prepare food for others. Do not share items with people in your household. For example, dishes, toothbrushes and towels. Do not have visitors. This includes tradespeople, unless it is an emergency. If you have a support carer, they can continue to provide essential care. If you are unwell and have symptoms, do not do strenuous, high-impact exercise. Stick to gentle, familiar exercise. Do not get a COVID-19 vaccination until you have recovered. --- Section Separator --- You are allowed to leave the place you are self-isolating for the following reasons. You must always wear a mask. Do not use public transport, taxis or rideshare vehicles. You can: have any medical examination and testing required access essential health services for treatment that cannot wait until you finish self-isolation attend any court, tribunal, New Zealand Parole Board hearing or other judicial institution you are required to attend move to another place of self-isolation to protect your own or another person’s life, health, or safety visit a dying relative who is not expected to live beyond your self-isolation visit the body of a relative before a funeral or tangihanga , if you will not be able to visit the body after your self-isolation. You are allowed to exercise outside your home while self-isolating. You can exercise in your neighbourhood, but not using any shared facility, such as a swimming pool or gym. You cannot exercise with other people, unless they are part of your household. Be mindful to: keep your distance from others stick to gentle, familiar exercise — do not do anything risky where you may need rescuing carry a face mask. You do not need to wear a face mask, but you may feel more comfortable doing so. --- Section Separator --- Medicines to treat COVID-19 How to self-isolate If you get COVID-19 while travelling
Home Isolation and care If you have COVID-19 If you get COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- This page is for people who live in New Zealand and are travelling domestically. What to do if you test positive while visiting New Zealand from another country You could get COVID-19 or find out you are a Household Contact while you are away from home on holiday or for work. Have a plan for what you need to do. Plan how to get home safely to isolate — you can only return home if you or someone you are travelling with can drive there. Talk through the plan with your travelling companions. If you cannot drive home, it is likely you will need to stay where you are for your isolation period. If you test positive for COVID-19 If you get cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while away from home, get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home. Order a rapid antigen test (RAT) online and pick up from your nearest collection point. Order online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Find a COVID-19 collection point | Healthpoint (external link) COVID-19 symptoms You should tell your accommodation provider if you have tested positive. They can make sure the property is safe for the next booking. More advice around temporary accommodation can be found on the Ministry of Health website: Guidance for isolating in temporary or holiday accommodation | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive or you are a Household Contact, you cannot: take a commercial flight home do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. If you are away for work, accommodation can be arranged by you or your employer. You do not need to seek permission to do this. If you have to self-isolate where you are, you will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. Care in the Community Getting help if you are self-isolating Check the COVID-19 Health Hub for advice. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Plan: who can look after your house if necessary who can care for your pets what things to take with you to help with boredom while isolating to have enough money to cover an extended time away from home, for example accommodation costs a list of medical information — include names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions, and medication or medical supplies each person with you needs. You will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines. How to self-isolate If you or your travelling companions can drive home in a private or work vehicle, then you can do so. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you need to plan: your route home how you would get fuel — you should only stop at a contactless petrol station supplies for the journey home to reduce the number of stops you make. You must not use public transport or do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. Remember to keep up healthy habits If you are borrowing or renting a car, tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle afterwards. Once you are home, follow the self-isolation guidance. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- This page is for people who live in New Zealand and are travelling domestically. What to do if you test positive while visiting New Zealand from another country --- Section Separator --- You could get COVID-19 or find out you are a Household Contact while you are away from home on holiday or for work. Have a plan for what you need to do. Plan how to get home safely to isolate — you can only return home if you or someone you are travelling with can drive there. Talk through the plan with your travelling companions. If you cannot drive home, it is likely you will need to stay where you are for your isolation period. If you test positive for COVID-19 If you get cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while away from home, get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home. Order a rapid antigen test (RAT) online and pick up from your nearest collection point. Order online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Find a COVID-19 collection point | Healthpoint (external link) COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- You should tell your accommodation provider if you have tested positive. They can make sure the property is safe for the next booking. More advice around temporary accommodation can be found on the Ministry of Health website: Guidance for isolating in temporary or holiday accommodation | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you test positive or you are a Household Contact, you cannot: take a commercial flight home do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. If you are away for work, accommodation can be arranged by you or your employer. You do not need to seek permission to do this. If you have to self-isolate where you are, you will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. Care in the Community Getting help if you are self-isolating Check the COVID-19 Health Hub for advice. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Plan: who can look after your house if necessary who can care for your pets what things to take with you to help with boredom while isolating to have enough money to cover an extended time away from home, for example accommodation costs a list of medical information — include names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions, and medication or medical supplies each person with you needs. You will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you or your travelling companions can drive home in a private or work vehicle, then you can do so. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you need to plan: your route home how you would get fuel — you should only stop at a contactless petrol station supplies for the journey home to reduce the number of stops you make. You must not use public transport or do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. Remember to keep up healthy habits If you are borrowing or renting a car, tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle afterwards. Once you are home, follow the self-isolation guidance. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- Medicines to treat COVID-19 How to self-isolate If you get COVID-19 while travelling
Home Isolation and care If you have COVID-19 Medicines to treat COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat eligible people with COVID-19 at home. You must start taking COVID-19 medicines within the first 5 days of getting symptoms. When taken early in your COVID-19 illness, antivirals can help you stay out of hospital. These medicines are free for eligible people within 5 days of their symptoms starting. People with a high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are eligible for treatment with COVID-19 medicines. Talk to your doctor or nurse by phone to see if getting a prescription is right for you. They will help you work out if you are eligible for COVID-19 medicine. It will depend on several factors, including your age, ethnicity, other health conditions and vaccination status. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, get a test. How to get a COVID-19 test If you are at risk of becoming very unwell with COVID-19 you may be able to get a prescription before you get COVID-19. This means the pharmacist will have the prescription ready to use if you become unwell. If you test positive, you can then arrange to have the medicine delivered by your friends, whānau or the pharmacy. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will confirm that it is still safe for you to take COVID-19 medicines. You will not be able to get the medicine until you are diagnosed with COVID-19. Talk to your doctor or nurse to see if getting a prescription before you get unwell is right for you. You might be eligible to get COVID-19 medicines from a pharmacist if you have tested positive, or have symptoms and are a Household Contact. You do not need a doctor’s prescription. Some pharmacists will be able to supply COVID-19 antivirals without a prescription. Talk to your pharmacist or a registered nurse either immediately after you test positive or develop symptoms to see if the medicines are right for you. To be eligible you must also either: have a severely weakened immune system have Down syndrome have sickle cell disease be aged 75 years or older, or have been previously admitted to an intensive care unit directly as a result of COVID-19 and have tested positive again. You might also be eligible if you: have high-risk medical conditions are over 50 years of age are of Māori or Pacific Island ethnicity have complex health needs or disability have not been vaccinated for COVID-19 or are not up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations. Find out about high-risk medical conditions on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Higher-risk people | Ministry of Health (external link) Three COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat early COVID-19 at home: ritonavir with nirmatrelvir (branded as Paxlovid) molnupiravir (branded as Lagevrio) remdesivir, an infusion treatment (branded as Veklury). Pharmacies supplying antivirals can be found on Healthpoint. You will need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) You will not need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you do not need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) If you have COVID-19 or are a Household Contact you must self-isolate for at least 7 days and cannot leave your home. If you are eligible for medicines, arrange to have them delivered by friends, whānau or by other means. Some pharmacies can deliver the medicine. How to self-isolate Some other medicines are available to treat COVID-19 but are only given in hospital. Pharmac, the agency which decides what medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand, has more information on its website. New Zealand’s COVID-19 treatments portfolio | Pharmac (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat eligible people with COVID-19 at home. You must start taking COVID-19 medicines within the first 5 days of getting symptoms. When taken early in your COVID-19 illness, antivirals can help you stay out of hospital. These medicines are free for eligible people within 5 days of their symptoms starting. --- Section Separator --- People with a high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are eligible for treatment with COVID-19 medicines. Talk to your doctor or nurse by phone to see if getting a prescription is right for you. They will help you work out if you are eligible for COVID-19 medicine. It will depend on several factors, including your age, ethnicity, other health conditions and vaccination status. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, get a test. How to get a COVID-19 test If you are at risk of becoming very unwell with COVID-19 you may be able to get a prescription before you get COVID-19. This means the pharmacist will have the prescription ready to use if you become unwell. If you test positive, you can then arrange to have the medicine delivered by your friends, whānau or the pharmacy. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will confirm that it is still safe for you to take COVID-19 medicines. You will not be able to get the medicine until you are diagnosed with COVID-19. Talk to your doctor or nurse to see if getting a prescription before you get unwell is right for you. You might be eligible to get COVID-19 medicines from a pharmacist if you have tested positive, or have symptoms and are a Household Contact. You do not need a doctor’s prescription. Some pharmacists will be able to supply COVID-19 antivirals without a prescription. Talk to your pharmacist or a registered nurse either immediately after you test positive or develop symptoms to see if the medicines are right for you. To be eligible you must also either: have a severely weakened immune system have Down syndrome have sickle cell disease be aged 75 years or older, or have been previously admitted to an intensive care unit directly as a result of COVID-19 and have tested positive again. You might also be eligible if you: have high-risk medical conditions are over 50 years of age are of Māori or Pacific Island ethnicity have complex health needs or disability have not been vaccinated for COVID-19 or are not up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations. Find out about high-risk medical conditions on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Higher-risk people | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Three COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat early COVID-19 at home: ritonavir with nirmatrelvir (branded as Paxlovid) molnupiravir (branded as Lagevrio) remdesivir, an infusion treatment (branded as Veklury). --- Section Separator --- Pharmacies supplying antivirals can be found on Healthpoint. You will need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) You will not need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you do not need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 or are a Household Contact you must self-isolate for at least 7 days and cannot leave your home. If you are eligible for medicines, arrange to have them delivered by friends, whānau or by other means. Some pharmacies can deliver the medicine. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- Some other medicines are available to treat COVID-19 but are only given in hospital. Pharmac, the agency which decides what medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand, has more information on its website. New Zealand’s COVID-19 treatments portfolio | Pharmac (external link) --- Section Separator --- Medicines to treat COVID-19 How to self-isolate If you get COVID-19 while travelling
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. --- Section Separator --- Our team works hard to make sure information in alternate formats is available as quickly as possible. Alternate formats are in Easy Read, New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL), braille, audio and Large Print. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Braille --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Braille: Getting free face masks [BRF, 2 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. Life at Green [BRF, 3 KB] Life at Orange [BRF, 6 KB] Life at Red [BRF, 10 KB] The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 5 KB] Getting free face masks [BRF, 2 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [BRF, 3 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [BRF, 3 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Getting your booster dose [BRF, 4 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] My Covid Record [BRF, 3 KB] My Vaccine Pass [BRF, 4 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [BRF, 1 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] About COVID-19 testing [BRF, 4 KB] When you should get a test [BRF, 3 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] How contact tracing works [BRF, 4 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 3 KB] Isolating at home [BRF, 6 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [BRF, 2 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [BRF, 2 KB] Travel within New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Braille: Getting free face masks [BRF, 2 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] --- Section Separator --- Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. --- Section Separator --- Life at Green [BRF, 3 KB] Life at Orange [BRF, 6 KB] Life at Red [BRF, 10 KB] --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 5 KB] Getting free face masks [BRF, 2 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [BRF, 3 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [BRF, 3 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Getting your booster dose [BRF, 4 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] My Covid Record [BRF, 3 KB] My Vaccine Pass [BRF, 4 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [BRF, 1 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 testing [BRF, 4 KB] When you should get a test [BRF, 3 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] How contact tracing works [BRF, 4 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [BRF, 6 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [BRF, 2 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [BRF, 2 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travel within New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. --- Section Separator --- This page has lots of links to Easy Read information. Scroll down the page and click the boxes below to find more information. --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Easy Read: Getting free face masks [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Getting free face masks [PDF, 1.4 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information about the traffic lights system. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Easy Read about travelling to and from New Zealand, and travelling around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information about the traffic lights system. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Easy Read about travelling to and from New Zealand, and travelling around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 1.9 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.4 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 1.9 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 1.4 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 10 MB] Wearing a face mask [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Getting free face masks [PDF, 1.4 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 10 MB] Wearing a face mask [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Getting free face masks [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Large print and Audio: Getting free face masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting free face masks [MP3, 987 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 540 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [MP3, 894 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [MP3, 1.1 MB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to, from and around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to, from and around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 542 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 540 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 3.3 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [MP3, 894 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 540 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [MP3, 1016 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 542 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 540 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 3.3 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [MP3, 894 KB] --- Section Separator --- Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 540 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [MP3, 1016 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [DOCX, 441 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 2.3 MB] Getting free face masks [MP3, 987 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [MP3, 1.4 MB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 537 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [DOCX, 441 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 2.3 MB] Getting free face masks [MP3, 987 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [MP3, 1.4 MB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 537 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 testing [DOCX, 542 KB] When you should get a test [DOCX, 541 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 543 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [DOCX, 539 KB] About COVID-19 testing [MP3, 1.7 MB] When you should get a test [MP3, 1.4 MB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 2.8 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 541 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 541 KB] How contact tracing works [DOCX, 542 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] How contact tracing works [MP3, 2.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.4 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 testing [DOCX, 542 KB] When you should get a test [DOCX, 541 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 543 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [DOCX, 539 KB] About COVID-19 testing [MP3, 1.7 MB] When you should get a test [MP3, 1.4 MB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 2.8 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 541 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 541 KB] How contact tracing works [DOCX, 542 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] How contact tracing works [MP3, 2.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.4 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language: Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people (external link) Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose (external link) After you have had COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Find out what you need to do if you are planning to travel to, from or around New Zealand. Find out about support available through the pandemic in New Zealand Sign Language --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Find out what you need to do if you are planning to travel to, from or around New Zealand. Find out about support available through the pandemic in New Zealand Sign Language
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Getting the COVID-19 vaccine (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- There was a problem loading the media. --- Section Separator --- There was a problem loading the media. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Vaccinations for children (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- There was a problem loading the media. --- Section Separator --- There was a problem loading the media. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Preparing for COVID-19 (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- There was a problem loading the media. --- Section Separator --- There was a problem loading the media. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Honoa mai ki ngā whakaohiti mō ngā pārongo KŌWHEORI-19 kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori --- Section Separator --- Anei ngā whakahoutanga KOWHEORI-19 hou rawa: I muri i tō pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 After you have had COVID-19 Ina hua ake he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e haere ana ki Aotearoa If you develop COVID-19 symptoms while visiting New Zealand Te haere ki Aotearoa Travelling to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Ko tā te kano ārai mate he tiaki i ō tamariki, tō whānau me tō hapori. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. Rapua ngā mahi hei whai māhau mēnā e whakaaro ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa, atu i Aotearoa, i roto rānei o Aotearoa. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo. --- Section Separator --- E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Ko tā te kano ārai mate he tiaki i ō tamariki, tō whānau me tō hapori. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. Rapua ngā mahi hei whai māhau mēnā e whakaaro ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa, atu i Aotearoa, i roto rānei o Aotearoa. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo.
Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 he tangata whaipānga tata koe i te kāinga, ā, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mō te nuinga o ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he ngāwari noa ngā tohumate, ā, ka taea te whakahaere i ēnei i te kāinga. Engari mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana te āwhina mēnā e hiahia ana koe. I muri i tō whakaoranga i te KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua puta i te noho taratahi, tērā ētahi āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, hei whakaarotanga māhau i a koe e whakamātūtū ana. --- Section Separator --- Mēnā ka kitea kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mēnā e noho tahi ana koe me tētahi kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 he tangata whaipānga tata koe i te kāinga, ā, me noho taratahi koe i te kāinga. Mō te nuinga o ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19, he ngāwari noa ngā tohumate, ā, ka taea te whakahaere i ēnei i te kāinga. Engari mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana te āwhina mēnā e hiahia ana koe. I muri i tō whakaoranga i te KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua puta i te noho taratahi, tērā ētahi āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, hei whakaarotanga māhau i a koe e whakamātūtū ana.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation I muri i tō pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 | After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- I a koe e whakaora mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19, tērā pea ka tere ngenge koe, ka tūngāngā rānei. He mea māori noa tēnei i muri o te pānga ki te mate. Me āta kuhu haere i a koe, i te wā e hoki haere ana ki ngā mahi noa. Me whakarite: kia nui te moe kia tika te kai kia whakangā mēnā e hiahia ana kia āta haere. Mēnā he āwangawanga ōu, me kōrero koe ki tō tākuta, mātanga hauora rānei. Mēnā he tohumate tonu ōu i muri i te wā noho taratahi, me noho tonu koe ki te kāinga, ki reira whakamātūtū ai. Me noho pēnei kia 24 hāora mai i te korenga haere o ō tohumate. Me kōrero koe ki tō kaiwhakhaaere, kaitirotiro rānei mō te wā tika mōu ki te hoki ki te mahi. Mēnā he tohumate tonu ōu, ō tō tamaiti rānei i muri i te wā noho taratahi, me noho tonu koe ki te kāinga, ki reira whakamātūtū ai. Me noho pēnei kia 24 hāora mai i te korenga haere o ngā tohumate. Ka pā tēnei ki ngā kura kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā kura wānanga hoki. Ehara i te mea me whakaatu taunakitanga koe o tētahi RAT, PCR rānei e tohu ana kāore koe i te pāngia, e hoki ai koe ki te kura. Mēnā kua 10 rā neke atu mai i te kitenga tuatahi o ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua kore e māuiui ngā tamariki, ko te āhua nei kua kore e pokea, ā, kua pai ki te hoki ki te kura. Mēnā e māuiui tonu ana te tamaiti, i kino haere ana rānei ngā tohumate i muri i te 10 rā, me kaua e hoki ki te kura. Me kōrero koe ki tō tākuta, waea rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . I te wā e māuiui ana koe, ā, kāore koe i te tino kori, te nekeneke haere rānei, me whai wā anō tō tinana ki te hoki atu anō ki ngā taumata kori o mua. Ka taea e tō tākuta, mātanga hauora rānei te tuku kōrero ki a koe, me pēhea te hoki atu anō ki ngā mahi kori tinana, e hāngai ana ki tō āhuatanga. Ka taea anō e koe ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te hoki ki te mahi kori tinana i te pae tukutuku a Health Navigator: Te hoki ki ngā mahi kori tinana i muri i te KOWHEORI-19 | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) Horapa haere ai te KOWHEORI-19 mā te pānga tata ki tētahi tangata e pokea ana, i te wā ka mare, ka matihe rānei. Ahakoa he iti ake te tūponotanga, ka pokea tonu pea koe ki te pā koe ki tētahi mea, mata rānei kua tāhawahawatia, kātahi ka pā ki tōu ake waha, ihu, kanohi rānei. He poto te wā e ora ai te huaketo i runga i ngā mata. Engari he makuhane te kiriuhi o waho, nā reira he ngāwari noa te patu mā te horoi me te patu huakita. I ngā wā ka whakatauhia he kēhi KOWHEORI-19 i rō whare i roto i te 24 hāora, he nui ake te tūpono kitea o te huaketo i ngā mata. Me ata horoi, patu huakita hoki ngā mata katoa. Ina pā mai anō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua 28 rā, iti ake rānei mai i tō pokenga i mua (mai i te wā i kitea e pāngia ana koe, i kitea rānei ngā tohumate tuatahi), ā: he mōrea iti koe, ehara i te mea me whakamātau anō - me noho ki te kāinga whakaora ai, kia 24 hāora te korenga o ō tohumate he mate hauora wheoro tāu, he tohumate rānei e rite ana ki ō te KOWHEORI-19 e kino haere ake ana, me rapu tohutohu mai i tētahi mātanga hauora, mai i Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā kua hoki mai anō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua 29 rā neke atu rānei mai i te pokenga o mua, me whakamātau ki te RAT. Mēnā e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe, me noho taratahi anō, ka whai hoki i ngā tohutohu ānō nei ko tō pokenga tuatahi. Mahia he whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 Te noho taratahi i te kāinga Kia ora mai koe i te COVID-19, kua kore koe e mate ki te noho taratahi anō mō te 3 marama, ki te pāngia tētahi kainoho i tō kāinga e te mate. I pēnei ai nā te mea he tino iti tō morea pāngia anō e te mate i taua wā. Ngā Pānga ā-Kāinga E whakaahua ana te KOWHEORI roa i ngā tohumate ka kitea tonutia ka whanake rānei i muri i ngā tohumate tuatahi o te KOWHEORI-19. Kitea ai tēnei i muri i te 12 wiki o te pokenga tuatahi o te tangata. Ko te nuinga o te hunga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, ka ora mai i muri i te 2 ki te 6 wiki, ā, otirā ka tino ora mai i roto i te 12 wiki. Engari, ko ētahi ka pāngia tonutia e ngā tohumate i tua noa atu i taua wā. Kitea tonutia ai ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI roa i ngā wiki me ngā marama tonu i muri iho. Ko ētahi o ēnei ko te: ruha tūngāngā maremare mamae korokoro nanati o te uma mamae uma uaua ki te aro atu, waimaero aronga, te 'rehurehu o te hinengaro' rānei moe korohiko kēkerewai āmai mamae pona mamae uaua Mō ngā tautoko ki te whakahaere me te whakamaimoa i te KOWHOERI roa, me rapu āwhina i tō tākuta, rōpū hauora rānei.Ka utua katoatia te tiaki hauora KOWHEORI-19 mō te 6 wiki mai i te rā tuatahi o ō tohumate, te rā rānei i tohu te whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe, ko te mea tuatahi o ēnei. Ka kitea ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te KOWHEORI roa, me ētahi atu tohumate whānui e pūrongotia ana, i te pae tukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora: KOWHEORI roa | health.govt.nz (external link) Kia ora mai koe, ā, mēnā kāore anō i whiwhi i te kano ārai mate, te whiwhi i te pota āpiti rānei, e whakahaua ana kia whiwhi tonu koe i te kano ārai mate. Me tatari mō te 3 marama i muri i te whakaoranga mai i mua o te whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHOERI-19. Tīkina he kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- I a koe e whakaora mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19, tērā pea ka tere ngenge koe, ka tūngāngā rānei. He mea māori noa tēnei i muri o te pānga ki te mate. Me āta kuhu haere i a koe, i te wā e hoki haere ana ki ngā mahi noa. Me whakarite: kia nui te moe kia tika te kai kia whakangā mēnā e hiahia ana kia āta haere. Mēnā he āwangawanga ōu, me kōrero koe ki tō tākuta, mātanga hauora rānei. Mēnā he tohumate tonu ōu i muri i te wā noho taratahi, me noho tonu koe ki te kāinga, ki reira whakamātūtū ai. Me noho pēnei kia 24 hāora mai i te korenga haere o ō tohumate. Me kōrero koe ki tō kaiwhakhaaere, kaitirotiro rānei mō te wā tika mōu ki te hoki ki te mahi. Mēnā he tohumate tonu ōu, ō tō tamaiti rānei i muri i te wā noho taratahi, me noho tonu koe ki te kāinga, ki reira whakamātūtū ai. Me noho pēnei kia 24 hāora mai i te korenga haere o ngā tohumate. Ka pā tēnei ki ngā kura kōhungahunga, ngā kura me ngā kura wānanga hoki. Ehara i te mea me whakaatu taunakitanga koe o tētahi RAT, PCR rānei e tohu ana kāore koe i te pāngia, e hoki ai koe ki te kura. Mēnā kua 10 rā neke atu mai i te kitenga tuatahi o ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua kore e māuiui ngā tamariki, ko te āhua nei kua kore e pokea, ā, kua pai ki te hoki ki te kura. Mēnā e māuiui tonu ana te tamaiti, i kino haere ana rānei ngā tohumate i muri i te 10 rā, me kaua e hoki ki te kura. Me kōrero koe ki tō tākuta, waea rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . I te wā e māuiui ana koe, ā, kāore koe i te tino kori, te nekeneke haere rānei, me whai wā anō tō tinana ki te hoki atu anō ki ngā taumata kori o mua. Ka taea e tō tākuta, mātanga hauora rānei te tuku kōrero ki a koe, me pēhea te hoki atu anō ki ngā mahi kori tinana, e hāngai ana ki tō āhuatanga. Ka taea anō e koe ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te hoki ki te mahi kori tinana i te pae tukutuku a Health Navigator: Te hoki ki ngā mahi kori tinana i muri i te KOWHEORI-19 | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) Horapa haere ai te KOWHEORI-19 mā te pānga tata ki tētahi tangata e pokea ana, i te wā ka mare, ka matihe rānei. Ahakoa he iti ake te tūponotanga, ka pokea tonu pea koe ki te pā koe ki tētahi mea, mata rānei kua tāhawahawatia, kātahi ka pā ki tōu ake waha, ihu, kanohi rānei. He poto te wā e ora ai te huaketo i runga i ngā mata. Engari he makuhane te kiriuhi o waho, nā reira he ngāwari noa te patu mā te horoi me te patu huakita. I ngā wā ka whakatauhia he kēhi KOWHEORI-19 i rō whare i roto i te 24 hāora, he nui ake te tūpono kitea o te huaketo i ngā mata. Me ata horoi, patu huakita hoki ngā mata katoa. Ina pā mai anō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua 28 rā, iti ake rānei mai i tō pokenga i mua (mai i te wā i kitea e pāngia ana koe, i kitea rānei ngā tohumate tuatahi), ā: he mōrea iti koe, ehara i te mea me whakamātau anō - me noho ki te kāinga whakaora ai, kia 24 hāora te korenga o ō tohumate he mate hauora wheoro tāu, he tohumate rānei e rite ana ki ō te KOWHEORI-19 e kino haere ake ana, me rapu tohutohu mai i tētahi mātanga hauora, mai i Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā kua hoki mai anō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua 29 rā neke atu rānei mai i te pokenga o mua, me whakamātau ki te RAT. Mēnā e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe, me noho taratahi anō, ka whai hoki i ngā tohutohu ānō nei ko tō pokenga tuatahi. Mahia he whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 Te noho taratahi i te kāinga Kia ora mai koe i te COVID-19, kua kore koe e mate ki te noho taratahi anō mō te 3 marama, ki te pāngia tētahi kainoho i tō kāinga e te mate. I pēnei ai nā te mea he tino iti tō morea pāngia anō e te mate i taua wā. Ngā Pānga ā-Kāinga E whakaahua ana te KOWHEORI roa i ngā tohumate ka kitea tonutia ka whanake rānei i muri i ngā tohumate tuatahi o te KOWHEORI-19. Kitea ai tēnei i muri i te 12 wiki o te pokenga tuatahi o te tangata. Ko te nuinga o te hunga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, ka ora mai i muri i te 2 ki te 6 wiki, ā, otirā ka tino ora mai i roto i te 12 wiki. Engari, ko ētahi ka pāngia tonutia e ngā tohumate i tua noa atu i taua wā. Kitea tonutia ai ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI roa i ngā wiki me ngā marama tonu i muri iho. Ko ētahi o ēnei ko te: ruha tūngāngā maremare mamae korokoro nanati o te uma mamae uma uaua ki te aro atu, waimaero aronga, te 'rehurehu o te hinengaro' rānei moe korohiko kēkerewai āmai mamae pona mamae uaua Mō ngā tautoko ki te whakahaere me te whakamaimoa i te KOWHOERI roa, me rapu āwhina i tō tākuta, rōpū hauora rānei.Ka utua katoatia te tiaki hauora KOWHEORI-19 mō te 6 wiki mai i te rā tuatahi o ō tohumate, te rā rānei i tohu te whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe, ko te mea tuatahi o ēnei. Ka kitea ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te KOWHEORI roa, me ētahi atu tohumate whānui e pūrongotia ana, i te pae tukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora: KOWHEORI roa | health.govt.nz (external link) Kia ora mai koe, ā, mēnā kāore anō i whiwhi i te kano ārai mate, te whiwhi i te pota āpiti rānei, e whakahaua ana kia whiwhi tonu koe i te kano ārai mate. Me tatari mō te 3 marama i muri i te whakaoranga mai i mua o te whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHOERI-19. Tīkina he kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | Rapid Antigen Tests Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi RAT kore utu. Ka taea te kohi i ēnei mai i tētahi wāhi kohinga, mā tētahi atu rānei e kohi. Māu tonu e whakahaere i ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere, mā tētahi atu rānei. Me pūrongo i ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere (RAT) mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe, kāore rānei. Ka taea tēnei mā te ipurangi mā My Covid Record, mā te waea rānei i te waea āwhina. --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa te whiwhi RAT kore utu. Ka taea te kohi i ēnei mai i tētahi wāhi kohinga, mā tētahi atu rānei e kohi. Māu tonu e whakahaere i ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere, mā tētahi atu rānei. Me pūrongo i ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere (RAT) mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe, kāore rānei. Ka taea tēnei mā te ipurangi mā My Covid Record, mā te waea rānei i te waea āwhina.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | Rapid Antigen Tests Me pēhea te rapu Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere | How to get a Rapid Antigen Test --- Section Separator --- E rua ngā huarahi mō te tono Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere: I runga i te pae tukutuku ‘Tono i tētahi Whakamātautau Kowheori-19’: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Mā te waea ki 0800 222 478 me te tīpako i te kōwhiringa 3 E tono ai koe mā te pae tukutuku, me āhei koe ki tētahi waea kawe hei whakaū i te tono. Ka taea te tono RAT mā tētahi atu. Me mahi māmā noa te tono RAT i te pae tukutuku, me whai noa i ngā tohutohu: Haere ki requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) . Ka pātai te paetukutuku mēnā he kino ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e tika ana tērā, me hohoro te waea ki 111 , me pāwhiri rānei i te ‘kāore i a au ēnei tohumate’. Tīpakohia te ‘Tīmata ināianei’. Tāurua tō nama waea kawe ki te āpure, ka pāwhiri i te ‘Haere tonu’. Ka tukua tētahi waehere hāpono e 6-mati ki tō waea kawe. Tāurua tēnei waehere ina whiwhi i a koe, ka pāwhiri i te ‘Haere tonu’. Pānuitia te ‘Tauākī Tūmataitinga Puka Tono RAT’ ka tohu i te pouaka ki te whakaū i tō pānuitanga. Kātahi ka pāwhiri i te ‘Whakaae ka Haere Tonu’ Ka pātaitia koe mēnā i tae mai koe ki Aotearoa mai i tāwāhi i ngā rā e whitu kua hipa, ka kōwhiri i te ‘Āe’, te ‘Kāo’ rānei, ā, ka pāwhiri i te ‘Panuku’. Mēnā kua roa kē te wā i tō taenga mai ki Aotearoa, ka pātaitia koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i ngā rangi tata nei. Me whakautu ‘Āe’, ‘Kāo’ rānei, kātahi ka kōwhiri i te ‘Panuku’. Tāurua ngā taipitopito ki te puka, ka kōwhiri i te ‘Tuku tono’. Mēnā kātahi anō koe kia tae mai ki Aotearoa, tēnā whakakīhia ēnei pātai, tae atu ki te nama o te rerenga, te rā i tae mai ai, kātahi ka kōwhiri i te ‘Tuku tono’ Mēnā kua roa kē te wā i tō taenga mai ki Aotearoa, ka pātaitia koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i ngā rangi tata nei. Me whakautu ‘Āe’, ‘Kāo’ rānei, kātahi ka kōwhiri i te ‘Panuku’. Tāurua ngā taipitopito ki te puka, ka kōwhiri i te ‘Tuku tono’. Mēnā kātahi anō koe kia tae mai ki Aotearoa, tēnā whakakīhia ēnei pātai, tae atu ki te nama o te rerenga, te rā i tae mai ai, kātahi ka kōwhiri i te ‘Tuku tono’ Ka whakaatu te mata whakamutunga i tētahi nama tono me te hononga ki te rapu i tētahi wāhi kohinga o ō RAT. Ka tuku mōhiohio hoki ki a koe o te nama waea ki te kore koe e tae atu ki tētahi wāhi kohinga. Ka tukua hoki ki a koe mā te pātuhi tētahi waehere tono RAT. Kātahi ka āhei koe ki te kohi i tō tono RAT i tētahi wāhi e rārangi mai ana i Healthpoint, mā tētahi atu rānei e kohi. Ka taea te tiki i ngā maruhā ā-rongoā kore utu i te wā ka kohi koe i ō RAT mai i ngā wāhi whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whakaatu tohumate KOWHEORI-19 koe. Mēnā he nui ake tō mōrearea pānga ki te mate, ka taea ngā momo maruhā P2/N95 kore utu. Me tuku tono tonu koe mā te paetukutuku Tono takai RAT KOWHEORI-19 kore utu. Mēnā kei tētahi wāhi tuawhenua koe e noho ana, he āhuatanga whakatapoko motuhake rānei āu, waea ki 0800 222 478 ka pēhi i te pātene 3 ki te kōrero i ō whiringa. --- Section Separator --- E rua ngā huarahi mō te tono Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere: I runga i te pae tukutuku ‘Tono i tētahi Whakamātautau Kowheori-19’: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Mā te waea ki 0800 222 478 me te tīpako i te kōwhiringa 3 E tono ai koe mā te pae tukutuku, me āhei koe ki tētahi waea kawe hei whakaū i te tono. Ka taea te tono RAT mā tētahi atu. Me mahi māmā noa te tono RAT i te pae tukutuku, me whai noa i ngā tohutohu: Haere ki requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) . Ka pātai te paetukutuku mēnā he kino ō tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e tika ana tērā, me hohoro te waea ki 111 , me pāwhiri rānei i te ‘kāore i a au ēnei tohumate’. Tīpakohia te ‘Tīmata ināianei’. Tāurua tō nama waea kawe ki te āpure, ka pāwhiri i te ‘Haere tonu’. Ka tukua tētahi waehere hāpono e 6-mati ki tō waea kawe. Tāurua tēnei waehere ina whiwhi i a koe, ka pāwhiri i te ‘Haere tonu’. Pānuitia te ‘Tauākī Tūmataitinga Puka Tono RAT’ ka tohu i te pouaka ki te whakaū i tō pānuitanga. Kātahi ka pāwhiri i te ‘Whakaae ka Haere Tonu’ Ka pātaitia koe mēnā i tae mai koe ki Aotearoa mai i tāwāhi i ngā rā e whitu kua hipa, ka kōwhiri i te ‘Āe’, te ‘Kāo’ rānei, ā, ka pāwhiri i te ‘Panuku’. Mēnā kua roa kē te wā i tō taenga mai ki Aotearoa, ka pātaitia koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i ngā rangi tata nei. Me whakautu ‘Āe’, ‘Kāo’ rānei, kātahi ka kōwhiri i te ‘Panuku’. Tāurua ngā taipitopito ki te puka, ka kōwhiri i te ‘Tuku tono’. Mēnā kātahi anō koe kia tae mai ki Aotearoa, tēnā whakakīhia ēnei pātai, tae atu ki te nama o te rerenga, te rā i tae mai ai, kātahi ka kōwhiri i te ‘Tuku tono’ Mēnā kua roa kē te wā i tō taenga mai ki Aotearoa, ka pātaitia koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i ngā rangi tata nei. Me whakautu ‘Āe’, ‘Kāo’ rānei, kātahi ka kōwhiri i te ‘Panuku’. Tāurua ngā taipitopito ki te puka, ka kōwhiri i te ‘Tuku tono’. Mēnā kātahi anō koe kia tae mai ki Aotearoa, tēnā whakakīhia ēnei pātai, tae atu ki te nama o te rerenga, te rā i tae mai ai, kātahi ka kōwhiri i te ‘Tuku tono’ Ka whakaatu te mata whakamutunga i tētahi nama tono me te hononga ki te rapu i tētahi wāhi kohinga o ō RAT. Ka tuku mōhiohio hoki ki a koe o te nama waea ki te kore koe e tae atu ki tētahi wāhi kohinga. Ka tukua hoki ki a koe mā te pātuhi tētahi waehere tono RAT. Kātahi ka āhei koe ki te kohi i tō tono RAT i tētahi wāhi e rārangi mai ana i Healthpoint, mā tētahi atu rānei e kohi. Ka taea te tiki i ngā maruhā ā-rongoā kore utu i te wā ka kohi koe i ō RAT mai i ngā wāhi whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whakaatu tohumate KOWHEORI-19 koe. Mēnā he nui ake tō mōrearea pānga ki te mate, ka taea ngā momo maruhā P2/N95 kore utu. Me tuku tono tonu koe mā te paetukutuku Tono takai RAT KOWHEORI-19 kore utu. Mēnā kei tētahi wāhi tuawhenua koe e noho ana, he āhuatanga whakatapoko motuhake rānei āu, waea ki 0800 222 478 ka pēhi i te pātene 3 ki te kōrero i ō whiringa. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel Rapua ngā mahi hei whai māhau mēnā e whakaaro ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa, atu i Aotearoa, i roto rānei o Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā kōrero me mōhio koe mō te hāereere i Aotearoa i raro i te pūnaha rama toru Me aha koe mēnā kei te whakarite koe ki te wehe i Aotearoa. E āta huaki mai ana ngā roherohenga o Aotearoa puta noa i te 2022. Kimi kōrero me aha koe ina hua ake he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e haere ana ki Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā kōrero me mōhio koe mō te hāereere i Aotearoa i raro i te pūnaha rama toru Me aha koe mēnā kei te whakarite koe ki te wehe i Aotearoa. E āta huaki mai ana ngā roherohenga o Aotearoa puta noa i te 2022. Kimi kōrero me aha koe ina hua ake he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e haere ana ki Aotearoa.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel Ina hua ake he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e haere ana ki Aotearoa | If you develop COVID-19 symptoms while visiting New Zealand --- Section Separator --- I tō taenga mai ki Aotearoa, me whakakī i ngā herenga whakamātautau katoa mā ngā whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) kei tō pūhera taenga. I raro ka kite koe me aha koe ina hua ake he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i muri i te wā o te 'whakamātautau i te taenga mai' (hei te Rā 7 i muri i tō taenga mai). Mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu, ka taea e koe te tono RAT kore utu i te ipurangi, me te kohi i tētahi wāhi kohinga Tono i tētahi RAT kore utu (external link) Kimihia he wāhi kohinga Whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 tūtata ki a koe | Healthpoint (external link) Ki te kore ō tohumate engari kei te hiahia ki tētahi RAT, ka taea e koe te hoko i āu ake whakamātautau mai i tētahi toa hoko, pērā i ngā toa, ngā kēmehi ngā hokomaha rānei. Me pēhea te whakamahi i te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere Ina tohu ana te whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe waea ki 0800 222 478 ki te pūrongo i tō hua RAT e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe. Mēnā he nama waea kawe hāpono tāu, mā Te Manatū Hauora e tuku i tētahi pātuhi ki a koe i ngā nama ōkawa o 2328, 2648 rānei ki te whakaū i tō hua kei te pāngia koe. Mā te pātuhi e whakarato mōhiohio mō te noho taratahi i te kāinga me tētahi waehere whakauru mō te puka whaiwhai pānga tuihono. Me here koe ki tētahi pokapū whakamātautau, ki te whiwhi whakamātautau PCR i muri i tō hua RAT kei te pāngia koe. Ka īmēratia atu he puka ki a koe e taea ana e koe te tā, te whakaatu rānei he kape matihiko i te pokapū whakamātautau. Kimihia he pokapū whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 tūtata ki a koe | Healthpoint (external link) Me noho taratahi ā-kāinga koe mō te 7 rā i a koe e whakamātūtū ana. Ka tīmata tō 7 rā mai i te rā i kitea ngā tohumate, te rā rānei i kitea kei te pāngia koe e te mate (ko te mea tuatahi ō ērā). Ki te kore koe e whai i tēnei, tērā pea ka whainatia koe. Me noho taratahi ā-kāinga i te wā e noho ana koe, me kimi wāhi kē atu rānei. Tirohia mēnā ka taea e koe te whakatōroa i tō tāpuitanga, kia rite rānei ki te kimi wāhi kē atu. Ko te tikanga māhau e utu i ngā utu tāpiri o te whakatōroa i tō noho, te whakarite nōhanga kē rānei. Tirohia tō kaupapahere inihua hāereere ki te tiro mēnā ka kapi koe. Ko te hunga e noho ana i tō taha, e haere ana i tō taha, me noho taratahi mō te 7 rā. Ka uru ki tēnei te hunga e noho ana i tō rūma hōtēra, mōtēra, tēneti, wēne, kāinga hararei rānei, arā, tō 'mirumiru' hāereere. Kāore te hunga e noho tahi ana i ō whare noho e mate ki te noho taratahi, māna, kei roto rātou i tō 'mirumiru' hāereere. Ki te kore e taea e koe te noho tonu i tō wāhi noho, me rapu wāhi kē atu koe. Tērā pea ko ngā nōhanga taratahi, ko ngā mōtēra, hōtēra, wēne rānei. Ko ngā ture: me tūtata ki a koe kāore tētahi atu i te whakamahi i ngā rawapuni. Kāore e taea e koe: te hāereere mā runga rererangi arumoni ki tō wāhi noho te taraiwa tawhiti me te moe atu ki tētahi wāhi mō te pō te haere mā runga waka whiti i te moana o Raukawa, waka kawe tūmatanui rānei. Ka taea te haere mā runga waka kawe tūmataiti ki tō wāhi noho kē atu. Tērā pea ko tōu waka ake, ka taea te rēti waka mēnā ka taea tēnei mā te pūnaha utu, kohi pānga kore hoki. Whakapā atu ki tō kamupene rererangi, kaiwhakahaere tāpoi rānei ki te whakarite anō i tō haerenga, i ngā mahi rānei. Kia mōhio, kāore he herenga ā-ture i runga i te kaiwhakarato ki te whakahoki i ō pūtea, te whakarite anō rānei i ō kaupapa haere. I te wā e noho taratahi ana: Kaua e whakatata atu ki te tangata e noho ana i tō wāhi noho, hei tauira, me moe takitahi, ā, kia iti te wā i ngā wāhi tiri. Mēnā kāore e taea, me 2 mita tō noho wehe, ā, me mau maruhā ina tūtata ki ētahi atu. Me horoi i ōu ake pueru. Kia auau te horoi i ngā mata, me ngā tūemi auau te pānga atu, pēnei i ngā kūaha, ngā whakakā me ngā waea. Huakina ngā matapihi kia nui ake te rere o te hau. Whakaritea kia whakatakahia atu ngā mea pēnei i te kai me te rongoā. Me mahi mai i tō wāhi noho mēnā ka taea. I te wā e noho taratahi ana, kaua e : wehe atu i tō wāhi noho (māna, he take kua whakaaetia, pēnei i ēnei i raro) haere ki te tiki kai, rongoā rānei toha tūemi ki ētahi atu i roto i tō wāhi noho - hei tauira, ngā rīhi, ngā taitai niho, me ngā tāora. haere ki ngā wāhi tūmatanui whakamahi waka kawe tūmatanui, tēkehi me ngā waka tiri whai manuhiri, hāunga te hunga e tuku oranga ana ki a koe, tētahi atu rānei i tō kāinga. Ka taea e koe te wehe atu i tō wāhi noho engari me mau maruhā i ngā wā katoa ki te: whakatau atu ki tētahi tirohanga hauora me ngā whakamātautau e tika ana kia mahia toro atu ki ngā ratonga hauora waiwai mō te maimoatanga e kore e taea te whakataha ake kia mutu rā anō tō noho taratahi neke ki wāhi kē atu noho taratahi ai ki te tiaki i tō oranga, i te oranga rānei o tētahi atu. kori tinana i waho i tō takiwā noho - kaua e whakamahi i ngā puni tiri mō te kori tinana, pēnei i te puna kaukau haere ki te kite i tētahi whanaunga kei te whakahemohemo, ā, kāore pea ia e ora tae noa ki te mutunga o tō wā noho taratahi haere ki te kite i te tūpāpaku o tētahi whanaunga i mua i tētahi tangihanga, mēnā kāore e taea e koe te haere atu i muri i tō wā noho taratahi i te kāinga. Whakamōhiotia atu te hunga kei tō kāinga, tō wāhi noho, te hunga i noho tahi atu ai koe, me ētahi atu pānga tata kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Me pēhea te whakamōhio atu i te iwi kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) Whakakīhia te puka whaiwhai pānga tuihono a Te Manatū Hauora mā te waehere whakauru 6 mati ka whiwhi koe mā te pātuhi mai i ngā nama ōkawa 2328, 2648 rānei. Ka āhua 5 ki te 10 mineti te roa. Whakakīhia te puka whaiwhai pānga | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā kei te hiahia kai, utauta waiwai rānei i a koe e noho taratahi ana, tēnā pātai ki tō whānau, ō hoa rānei ki te kawe i ēnei ki a koe.Ka taea e koe te tono utauta mā te ipurangi, me te whakarite i te kawenga pānga kore. Mēnā kei te hiahia tohutohu hauora me pēhea te whakaora i ō tohumate, mēnā rānei e kino haere ana ngā tohumate, waea ki Healthline. Ka taea e koe te tono i ngā ratonga whakamāori. 0800 358 5453 — mai i tētahi nama waea o Aotearoa +64 9 358 5453 mai i tētahi SIM ā-ao Me utu pea koe i te maimoatanga hauora. E akiaki ana mātou i ngā manuhiri ki te hoko i te inihua hāereere hora whānui i mua o te haerenga. Mēnā he kirirarau koe o Ahitereiria, Kainoho Tūturu rānei, he kirararau rānei o Piritānia, tērā tētahi whakaaetanga hauora tauutuutu, ko te tikanga o tērā ka utu koe i ngā utunga ka utua e ngā tāngata o Aotearoa mō te hauora. Whakaarotia te whakapā atu ki tō Pā Whakahanga, tō Māngai, tō Kōmihana rānei ki te uru koe ki te hōhipera, ki te hiahia āwhina ā-māngai rānei. Rārangi o ngā pā whakahanga o tāwāhi i Aotearoa | Manatū Aorere (external link) Ki te hiahia āwhina hauora kōhukihuki, me wawe te waea ki 111 . Whāki atu e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i tō waeatanga. Ka uru pea ki tēnei mēnā e pāngia hoki koe, tētahi rānei e tiakina ana e koe: te uaua ki te whakangā he tino mamae te uma ka hemohemo. Mēnā e māuiui tonu ana koe, me noho ki tō wāhi noho, kia 24 hāora i muri i te korenga o ō tohumate. Ehara i te mea me tatari koe mō tētahi karere whaimana e wehe ai koe i te noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me whakamātautau koe - ka hua mai pea he hua kei te pāngia koe, engari ehara i te mea ka whakapoke koe i ētahi atu. Ka taea e ō pānga ā-kainga, me ngā mema o tō 'mirumiru haere' te whakaoti i te noho taratahi i te wā ōrite ki a koe, engari me tohu ake te whakamātautau Rā 7 kāore i te pāngia, ā, kāore he tohumate hou, kino haere rānei. Mēnā e tohu ana kei te pāngia tonutia, me tīmata anō te noho taratahi i te kāinga mō te 7 rā. I muri i tō whakaoranga i te KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua puta i te noho taratahi, tērā ētahi āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, hei whakaarotanga māhau i a koe e whakamātūtū ana. I muri i tō pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 Tirohia mēnā ka herea koe ki te whakaatu i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e tohu ana kāore i te pāngia, he tiwhikete hauora rānei e whakaū ana kua whakamātūtū koe i mua i tō haerenga. Mēnā kātahi anō ka ora mai koe i te KOWHEORI-19, ka whakaatu pea tō whakamātautau i te hua e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe. Ki te puta he hua e tohu ana kāore koe i te pāngia engari he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu, me noho ki te kāinga, ka whakahaere i tētahi atu RAT e 48 hāora i muri mai. Ina kino haere ō tohumate, waea ki Healthline i: 0800 358 5453 — mai i tētahi nama waea o Aotearoa +64 9 358 5453 —  mai i tētahi SIM ā-ao Ka taea e te tangata kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 te whiwhi hua RAT e tohu ana kāore i te pāngia. Ka pēnei nā te mea kāore i nui te huaketo i taua tīpakohanga, i te mea rānei kāore i tika te whakahaeretanga o te whakamātautau. --- Section Separator --- I tō taenga mai ki Aotearoa, me whakakī i ngā herenga whakamātautau katoa mā ngā whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) kei tō pūhera taenga. I raro ka kite koe me aha koe ina hua ake he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i muri i te wā o te 'whakamātautau i te taenga mai' (hei te Rā 7 i muri i tō taenga mai). Mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu, ka taea e koe te tono RAT kore utu i te ipurangi, me te kohi i tētahi wāhi kohinga Tono i tētahi RAT kore utu (external link) Kimihia he wāhi kohinga Whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 tūtata ki a koe | Healthpoint (external link) Ki te kore ō tohumate engari kei te hiahia ki tētahi RAT, ka taea e koe te hoko i āu ake whakamātautau mai i tētahi toa hoko, pērā i ngā toa, ngā kēmehi ngā hokomaha rānei. Me pēhea te whakamahi i te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere Ina tohu ana te whakamātautau kei te pāngia koe waea ki 0800 222 478 ki te pūrongo i tō hua RAT e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe. Mēnā he nama waea kawe hāpono tāu, mā Te Manatū Hauora e tuku i tētahi pātuhi ki a koe i ngā nama ōkawa o 2328, 2648 rānei ki te whakaū i tō hua kei te pāngia koe. Mā te pātuhi e whakarato mōhiohio mō te noho taratahi i te kāinga me tētahi waehere whakauru mō te puka whaiwhai pānga tuihono. Me here koe ki tētahi pokapū whakamātautau, ki te whiwhi whakamātautau PCR i muri i tō hua RAT kei te pāngia koe. Ka īmēratia atu he puka ki a koe e taea ana e koe te tā, te whakaatu rānei he kape matihiko i te pokapū whakamātautau. Kimihia he pokapū whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 tūtata ki a koe | Healthpoint (external link) Me noho taratahi ā-kāinga koe mō te 7 rā i a koe e whakamātūtū ana. Ka tīmata tō 7 rā mai i te rā i kitea ngā tohumate, te rā rānei i kitea kei te pāngia koe e te mate (ko te mea tuatahi ō ērā). Ki te kore koe e whai i tēnei, tērā pea ka whainatia koe. Me noho taratahi ā-kāinga i te wā e noho ana koe, me kimi wāhi kē atu rānei. Tirohia mēnā ka taea e koe te whakatōroa i tō tāpuitanga, kia rite rānei ki te kimi wāhi kē atu. Ko te tikanga māhau e utu i ngā utu tāpiri o te whakatōroa i tō noho, te whakarite nōhanga kē rānei. Tirohia tō kaupapahere inihua hāereere ki te tiro mēnā ka kapi koe. Ko te hunga e noho ana i tō taha, e haere ana i tō taha, me noho taratahi mō te 7 rā. Ka uru ki tēnei te hunga e noho ana i tō rūma hōtēra, mōtēra, tēneti, wēne, kāinga hararei rānei, arā, tō 'mirumiru' hāereere. Kāore te hunga e noho tahi ana i ō whare noho e mate ki te noho taratahi, māna, kei roto rātou i tō 'mirumiru' hāereere. Ki te kore e taea e koe te noho tonu i tō wāhi noho, me rapu wāhi kē atu koe. Tērā pea ko ngā nōhanga taratahi, ko ngā mōtēra, hōtēra, wēne rānei. Ko ngā ture: me tūtata ki a koe kāore tētahi atu i te whakamahi i ngā rawapuni. Kāore e taea e koe: te hāereere mā runga rererangi arumoni ki tō wāhi noho te taraiwa tawhiti me te moe atu ki tētahi wāhi mō te pō te haere mā runga waka whiti i te moana o Raukawa, waka kawe tūmatanui rānei. Ka taea te haere mā runga waka kawe tūmataiti ki tō wāhi noho kē atu. Tērā pea ko tōu waka ake, ka taea te rēti waka mēnā ka taea tēnei mā te pūnaha utu, kohi pānga kore hoki. Whakapā atu ki tō kamupene rererangi, kaiwhakahaere tāpoi rānei ki te whakarite anō i tō haerenga, i ngā mahi rānei. Kia mōhio, kāore he herenga ā-ture i runga i te kaiwhakarato ki te whakahoki i ō pūtea, te whakarite anō rānei i ō kaupapa haere. I te wā e noho taratahi ana: Kaua e whakatata atu ki te tangata e noho ana i tō wāhi noho, hei tauira, me moe takitahi, ā, kia iti te wā i ngā wāhi tiri. Mēnā kāore e taea, me 2 mita tō noho wehe, ā, me mau maruhā ina tūtata ki ētahi atu. Me horoi i ōu ake pueru. Kia auau te horoi i ngā mata, me ngā tūemi auau te pānga atu, pēnei i ngā kūaha, ngā whakakā me ngā waea. Huakina ngā matapihi kia nui ake te rere o te hau. Whakaritea kia whakatakahia atu ngā mea pēnei i te kai me te rongoā. Me mahi mai i tō wāhi noho mēnā ka taea. I te wā e noho taratahi ana, kaua e : wehe atu i tō wāhi noho (māna, he take kua whakaaetia, pēnei i ēnei i raro) haere ki te tiki kai, rongoā rānei toha tūemi ki ētahi atu i roto i tō wāhi noho - hei tauira, ngā rīhi, ngā taitai niho, me ngā tāora. haere ki ngā wāhi tūmatanui whakamahi waka kawe tūmatanui, tēkehi me ngā waka tiri whai manuhiri, hāunga te hunga e tuku oranga ana ki a koe, tētahi atu rānei i tō kāinga. Ka taea e koe te wehe atu i tō wāhi noho engari me mau maruhā i ngā wā katoa ki te: whakatau atu ki tētahi tirohanga hauora me ngā whakamātautau e tika ana kia mahia toro atu ki ngā ratonga hauora waiwai mō te maimoatanga e kore e taea te whakataha ake kia mutu rā anō tō noho taratahi neke ki wāhi kē atu noho taratahi ai ki te tiaki i tō oranga, i te oranga rānei o tētahi atu. kori tinana i waho i tō takiwā noho - kaua e whakamahi i ngā puni tiri mō te kori tinana, pēnei i te puna kaukau haere ki te kite i tētahi whanaunga kei te whakahemohemo, ā, kāore pea ia e ora tae noa ki te mutunga o tō wā noho taratahi haere ki te kite i te tūpāpaku o tētahi whanaunga i mua i tētahi tangihanga, mēnā kāore e taea e koe te haere atu i muri i tō wā noho taratahi i te kāinga. Whakamōhiotia atu te hunga kei tō kāinga, tō wāhi noho, te hunga i noho tahi atu ai koe, me ētahi atu pānga tata kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19. Me pēhea te whakamōhio atu i te iwi kei te pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) Whakakīhia te puka whaiwhai pānga tuihono a Te Manatū Hauora mā te waehere whakauru 6 mati ka whiwhi koe mā te pātuhi mai i ngā nama ōkawa 2328, 2648 rānei. Ka āhua 5 ki te 10 mineti te roa. Whakakīhia te puka whaiwhai pānga | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā kei te hiahia kai, utauta waiwai rānei i a koe e noho taratahi ana, tēnā pātai ki tō whānau, ō hoa rānei ki te kawe i ēnei ki a koe.Ka taea e koe te tono utauta mā te ipurangi, me te whakarite i te kawenga pānga kore. Mēnā kei te hiahia tohutohu hauora me pēhea te whakaora i ō tohumate, mēnā rānei e kino haere ana ngā tohumate, waea ki Healthline. Ka taea e koe te tono i ngā ratonga whakamāori. 0800 358 5453 — mai i tētahi nama waea o Aotearoa +64 9 358 5453 mai i tētahi SIM ā-ao Me utu pea koe i te maimoatanga hauora. E akiaki ana mātou i ngā manuhiri ki te hoko i te inihua hāereere hora whānui i mua o te haerenga. Mēnā he kirirarau koe o Ahitereiria, Kainoho Tūturu rānei, he kirararau rānei o Piritānia, tērā tētahi whakaaetanga hauora tauutuutu, ko te tikanga o tērā ka utu koe i ngā utunga ka utua e ngā tāngata o Aotearoa mō te hauora. Whakaarotia te whakapā atu ki tō Pā Whakahanga, tō Māngai, tō Kōmihana rānei ki te uru koe ki te hōhipera, ki te hiahia āwhina ā-māngai rānei. Rārangi o ngā pā whakahanga o tāwāhi i Aotearoa | Manatū Aorere (external link) Ki te hiahia āwhina hauora kōhukihuki, me wawe te waea ki 111 . Whāki atu e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i tō waeatanga. Ka uru pea ki tēnei mēnā e pāngia hoki koe, tētahi rānei e tiakina ana e koe: te uaua ki te whakangā he tino mamae te uma ka hemohemo. Mēnā e māuiui tonu ana koe, me noho ki tō wāhi noho, kia 24 hāora i muri i te korenga o ō tohumate. Ehara i te mea me tatari koe mō tētahi karere whaimana e wehe ai koe i te noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me whakamātautau koe - ka hua mai pea he hua kei te pāngia koe, engari ehara i te mea ka whakapoke koe i ētahi atu. Ka taea e ō pānga ā-kainga, me ngā mema o tō 'mirumiru haere' te whakaoti i te noho taratahi i te wā ōrite ki a koe, engari me tohu ake te whakamātautau Rā 7 kāore i te pāngia, ā, kāore he tohumate hou, kino haere rānei. Mēnā e tohu ana kei te pāngia tonutia, me tīmata anō te noho taratahi i te kāinga mō te 7 rā. I muri i tō whakaoranga i te KOWHEORI-19, ā, kua puta i te noho taratahi, tērā ētahi āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, hei whakaarotanga māhau i a koe e whakamātūtū ana. I muri i tō pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19 Tirohia mēnā ka herea koe ki te whakaatu i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 e tohu ana kāore i te pāngia, he tiwhikete hauora rānei e whakaū ana kua whakamātūtū koe i mua i tō haerenga. Mēnā kātahi anō ka ora mai koe i te KOWHEORI-19, ka whakaatu pea tō whakamātautau i te hua e tohu ana kei te pāngia koe. Ki te puta he hua e tohu ana kāore koe i te pāngia engari he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu, me noho ki te kāinga, ka whakahaere i tētahi atu RAT e 48 hāora i muri mai. Ina kino haere ō tohumate, waea ki Healthline i: 0800 358 5453 — mai i tētahi nama waea o Aotearoa +64 9 358 5453 —  mai i tētahi SIM ā-ao Ka taea e te tangata kei te pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19 te whiwhi hua RAT e tohu ana kāore i te pāngia. Ka pēnei nā te mea kāore i nui te huaketo i taua tīpakohanga, i te mea rānei kāore i tika te whakahaeretanga o te whakamātautau. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home News and data Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Data and statistics available: COVID-19 cases Vaccine data COVID-19 data portal Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 15 August 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. This includes: current COVID-19 cases case demographics source of COVID-19 cases. We update this data every weekday. For weekend case numbers, visit the Ministry of Health website: Latest news | Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 data and statistics | Ministry of Health (external link) 536 Cases in hospital 536 Cases in hospital 3,558 New active cases (community and border) 3,558 New active cases (community and border) 4,230 7-day rolling average of community cases 4,230 7-day rolling average of community cases 30,802 Active cases (community and border) 30,802 Active cases (community and border) 50 People reinfected within 90 days of a previous infection 50 People reinfected within 90 days of a previous infection --- Section Separator --- You can filter case numbers by health districts, age groups, and first infections and reinfections. COVID-19 data charts | Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 15 August 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and deaths related to COVID-19. COVID-19 current cases data | Ministry of Health (external link) 14 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 14 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 1,750 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) 1,750 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) --- Section Separator --- From Monday 8 August 2022, we will be calculating the percentage of people vaccinated using an updated dataset. The Health System User dataset counts the number of people in New Zealand who have used health services over a 12-month period. This increased by 233,000 in 2021. Because the updated dataset is bigger, the percentage of those vaccinated has dropped. However, the number of people vaccinated has not changed. The dataset will be updated every 6 months so we can provide the most accurate information about vaccination coverage. Updated health user information informs COVID-19 vaccination programme | Te Whatu Ora (external link) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 15 August 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 91% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 91% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 90% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 90% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 266,434 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 266,434 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 146,866 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 146,866 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 3,132,384 Booster doses (ages 16+) 3,132,384 Booster doses (ages 16+) --- Section Separator --- Check our map to find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Last updated 15 August 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Testing for COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) 6,359 RATs reported in last 24 hours 6,359 RATs reported in last 24 hours 2,442 PCR tests in last 24 hours 2,442 PCR tests in last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | Stats NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- If data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and, for researchers, the ability to request detailed COVID-19 data. COVID-19 data resources | Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 1-10 of 1043 updates 15 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2022 New Zealand will remain at the Orange traffic light setting, while hospitalisations remain elevated and pressure on the health system continues through winter. 08 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Aug 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 03 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 12:30pm. Speakers: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Associate Minister of Health Dr Ayesha Verrall Te Whatu Ora Chief Executive Margie Apa.
The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 12pm. Speakers: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Deputy Director-General, Public Health Agency Dr Andrew Old.
The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 12pm. Speakers: Head of the Public Health Agency Dr Andrew Old Head of the Public Health Agency Dr Andrew Old National Director of Te Whatu Ora – Health New Zealand’s National Public Health Service Dr Nick Chamberlain. National Director of Te Whatu Ora – Health New Zealand’s National Public Health Service Dr Nick Chamberlain. Watch the livestream of the briefing below. --- Section Separator --- 6,152 new community cases 663 cases in hospital 42,974 active community cases 12,328 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,859 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 6,152 community cases and 663 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,142 — last Thursday it was 7,776. There are now a total of 1,603 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 20. (This update is provided each Thursday) Of the 79 people in Auckland and Counties Manukau hospitals for SARI illnesses (severe acute respiratory infection) COVID-19 was detected in 1%, Human Metapneumovirus in 25% and Influenza in 1% Other causes of infection, where known, were rhinoviruses, enteroviruses, adenoviruses, parainfluenza virus and RSV (20%). The current rate of hospitalisations in Auckland and Counties Manukau is in line with rates seen in pre-COVID-19 years. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
That means anyone arriving by sea, unless exempt, will need to be vaccinated when New Zealand’s maritime border reopens at 11:59 pm today — 31 July 2022. These health requirements are part of the planned reopening of New Zealand’s border to overseas visitors. Being vaccinated reduces the risk that a visitor will need hospital care if they contract COVID-19. That in turn reduces the risk of visitors having to use Aotearoa New Zealand’s healthcare system, adding additional pressure. Exemptions to the requirements, for both air and sea arrivals, include New Zealand citizens, permanent residents, Australian citizens who are ordinarily resident in New Zealand, and children aged 16 years and younger. Check the vaccination requirements Cruise ship passengers will be asked by their booking agent or the operator for proof of vaccination for all eligible passengers. Cruise operators will then need to provide information and evidence to the New Zealand government that the eligible passengers have provided this proof. Passengers on board other types of recreational vessels will also need to show their proof of vaccination to NZ Customs before arriving. After arriving, passengers will need to comply with New Zealand’s domestic COVID-19 requirements around mask-wearing, and testing. If they test positive for COVID-19, or become a Household Contact, they will need to isolate on board. On the advice of public health officials, asymptomatic travellers arriving on cruise and recreational vessels will not need to self-test after arriving. Crew and passengers arriving on cargo and fishing vessels must continue to self-test if they are planning to disembark, but do not need to be vaccinated. How to enter New Zealand by sea
The combination of a spike in COVID-19 cases and hospitalisations, the worst flu season in recent memory and corresponding staff absences are putting health workers and the whole health system under extreme pressure. Our modelling suggests we are at the beginning of a second Omicron wave that could be bigger than the first, with the more transmissible BA.5 variant becoming the dominant strain in the community. There has been a significant increase in cases over the past 2 weeks, and the biggest jump is in cases amongst New Zealanders aged 65 and over. That in turn has led to an increase in hospital occupancy. We are continuing to ask New Zealanders to do 3 things: get vaccinated wear a mask in many or most indoor settings isolate when sick to suppress the spread of the virus over the remaining winter months. If we all play our part we can take some pressure off the health system. To support this, we are implementing a range of measures to help Kiwis stay well. These extra measures will help get us and the health system through the winter months. Please do your bit. We are increasing access to antiviral medication to those most likely to end up in hospital, making free masks and RATs more widely available and doing another push to lift uptake of flu and COVID-19 vaccines including the second booster. Antiviral medications can reduce the seriousness of COVID-19 meaning fewer people need to be hospitalised, so we are making these more widely available as pharmacist-only medications. Pharmac is also broadening the eligibility criteria to enable more people from higher risk groups to access antiviral medications. These eligible groups will be able to access antivirals without the need for a doctor’s prescription. This means access will expand from 2% to 10% of cases. From Monday 18 July, anyone over 75 years of age who has tested positive for COVID-19 or anyone who has been admitted previously to an Intensive Care Unit directly as a result of COVID-19 will be eligible to access antivirals through their doctor. This will help alleviate pressure on primary care by removing the need for GPs to review every COVID-19 patient that may be eligible for antivirals. To speed up access to antivirals, doctors can now provide back-pocket prescriptions, which means at-risk patients for acute respiratory illnesses can be preapproved and have their prescription ready should they become unwell and need the medicine immediately. To increase uptake in use in RATs and face masks, packs of medical masks will be provided free along with free RAT kits for individuals and households from testing centres and in more locations by the end of the week. You do not need to have COVID-19 symptoms. P2/N95 masks will be available for clinically vulnerable and high-risk individuals. Free RATs will be available from all current community providers, including marae, testing stations and local pharmacies. We are encouraging everyone who needs extra RATs or masks to head to a testing site or other location and collect a free pack for you and your whānau. There is no criteria — you do not need to be unwell or have symptoms. Wearing masks can reduce new cases of the virus by as much as 53%. We are asking New Zealanders to keep up good mask wearing, especially over the remaining winter months where the virus is more likely to pass in indoor settings. The tried and tested measures: wearing a high-quality mask, strong vaccine and booster uptake, antivirals and testing are highly effective and will put us in the best position to get through what is one of the toughest winters we have faced. We are also providing 10 million child-size masks available for Year 4 to 7 students in New Zealand and up to 30,000 masks a week for all other students and school staff, alongside extra funding to support better ventilation over winter. These are the most effective measures we have. They are simple but if we all do them we can lessen illness and the burden on our health system and dedicated health workers, and get through this darkest part of winter. How to get a COVID-19 test When to wear a face mask
There is still significant pressure on hospitals from winter illnesses, so our current measures have an ongoing role to play in reducing the number of COVID-19 cases and hospitalisations. The health system usually sees elevated pressure through September, so we would be hoping to see some sustained reductions in both cases and hospitalisations then. The good news is current modelling suggests COVID-19 cases may have peaked at around 11,000 cases per day mid-July. However, due to the current high levels of COVID-19 infection in the community, the corresponding burden on primary and hospital care systems and the highest levels of mortality seen in the outbreak so far, the COVID-19 Protection Framework setting has been kept the same. Remaining at Orange gives our health system the level of support needed to prevent a surge in demand for care. Maintaining our Orange setting a while longer supports the winter package of measures announced earlier in July, which included easier access to RATs and masks, expanded eligibility for antivirals and easier access to them for eligible people, and availability of the second booster to all people over 50. Our response to Omicron is moving in the right direction, but loosening settings before we are completely on top of it risk infections going up again. We just need to stay the course a little longer. There will be no changes to case isolation and household contact quarantine requirements. The next review setting will be in September. Under Orange, you are required to wear a mask in most indoor settings. You can visit cafes and bars, attend gatherings and events, and go to gyms and hairdressers — with no capacity limits or distancing requirements. Life at Orange
This evening marks the final step in the Government’s reconnecting plan, with visitors from non-visa waiver countries and international students able to apply for a visa to enter New Zealand. Today’s change in border settings marks the final milestone for our reconnecting strategy. This is great news to the tourism industry and economy as we approach spring and summer with people from the Northern hemisphere booking their winter holidays. We have heard optimistic messages from tourism operators who are ready to welcome back international visitors from all over the world. The Government’s $49 million Tourism Kick-start Fund has been put to good use by 481 businesses most affected by the border closure. This fund has helped operators gear up for the return of international visitors. Globally there is pent up demand for people to visit New Zealand. In January, 58% of Australians who would like to visit New Zealand wanted to come within 6 months of borders opening. This number is even higher for our American target market, at 77%. Today also marks the opening of the maritime border to cruise ships, specialist vessels and recreational vessels such as ocean-going yachts. The return of cruise ships is another boost for local communities. Pre-pandemic, their visits were worth in excess of $500 million a year, of which $356 million was spent onshore, providing a valuable economic contribution to our regions. Most cruise visits are during the warmer months of October to April, and summer is our bumper tourism season overall. This means it will be full steam ahead for the industry who can plan with certainty for the rest of the year and beyond. The changes in border settings today meant the resumption of key visa categories including students and visitors. Individuals who are coming to New Zealand to work will primarily use the Accredited Employer Work Visa, which opened on 4 July, to enter the country. Prior to the pandemic, the international education sector was worth several billion dollars to our country and education providers. While we have continued to support the sector with border exceptions through the pandemic, the full resumption of visa processing is great news for our universities, polytechnics and wānanga, and schools, English language schools, and private training establishments.
5,312 new community cases 759 cases in hospital 6,990 7-day rolling average of community cases 48,911 active community cases 8,780 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 2,284 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 5,312 community cases, 759 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,990. There are now a total of 1,502 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 19. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
4,818 new community cases 571 cases in hospital 4,750 7-day rolling average of community cases 33,230 active community cases 10,977 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,733 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 4,818 community cases and 571 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 4,750. Last Thursday it was 6,142. There are now a total of 1,726 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 12. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
4,126 new community cases 549 cases in hospital 4,581 7-day rolling average of community cases 32,055 active community cases 9,685 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,583 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 4,126 community cases and 549 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 4,581. Last Friday it was 5,812. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations is 609. Last Friday it was 721. There is now a total of 1,733 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 12. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
11,548 new community cases 710 cases in hospital 66,803 active community cases 19,414 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,336 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,550. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 19 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 4 days. The Ministry of Health and Te Whatu Ora – Health NZ are closely monitoring the continued increase in COVID-19 positive hospitalisations as part of our ongoing review and updating of the response to the current community outbreak. The increase in hospitalisations also emphasises the importance of everybody doing the basics well to help New Zealand get through winter in good shape. In particular, people should: stay home if they are unwell take a rapid antigen test (RAT) upload the result on My Covid Record, and isolate if positive or while still symptomatic. Now is also the time to ensure you are up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations, including those who are eligible for a second booster dose, as well as having a flu vaccination, which is free for many people. Get your COVID-19 vaccination Wearing a mask remains one of our best measures to reduce transmission against infectious respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. The more layers of protection we put in place — such as mask wearing, vaccinations, and staying home when sick — the more we reduce the risk of spreading respiratory viruses. Even if you are fully vaccinated, or have had COVID-19, continuing to wear a face mask is important in keeping you, your whanau and your community safe. As a general rule, we urge people to wear a mask in public indoor settings outside the home and in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. You must wear a mask on public transport and at transport hubs like airports and bus stations, inside public venues like museums and libraries, when visiting a health care service, and inside retail businesses like supermarkets and shopping malls. Masking up is particularly important when around more vulnerable members of the community, especially those who are older, those in aged residential care and healthcare settings where appropriate. Wearing a mask also helps protect our healthcare and aged residential care staff, reducing their chances of becoming unwell and supporting them to continue to provide care to those that need it. When to wear a face mask Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
11,464 new community cases 729 cases in hospital 67,926 active community cases 18,292 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,299 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,710. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 29 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 5 days. The Ministry of Health and Te Whatu Ora – Health NZ are closely monitoring the continued increase in Covid-19 positive cases and hospitalisations as part of our ongoing review and updating of the response to the current community outbreak. The increase in cases and hospitalisations emphasises the importance of everybody doing the basics well to help prevent infection and serious illness. In particular, people should: stay home if they are unwell take a rapid antigen test (RAT) upload the result on My Covid Record (external link) isolate if positive or while still symptomatic. It is important to ensure to you are up to date with all vaccinations, including COVID-19 vaccinations. Many are now eligible for a second booster dose, and flu vaccinations, which are free for many people. Get your COVID-19 vaccination Wearing a mask remains one of our best measures to reduce transmission against infectious respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. The more layers of protection we put in place - such as mask wearing, vaccinations, and staying home when sick - the more we reduce the risk of spreading respiratory viruses. Even if you’re fully vaccinated, or have had Covid-19, continuing to wear a face mask is important in keeping you, your whanau and your community safe. As a general rule, we urge people to wear a mask in public indoor settings outside the home and in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. You must wear a mask on public transport and at transport hubs like airports and bus stations, inside public venues like museums and libraries, when visiting a health care service, and inside retail businesses like supermarkets and shopping malls. Masking up is particularly important when around more vulnerable members of the community, especially those who are older, those in aged residential care and healthcare settings where appropriate. Wearing a mask also helps protect our healthcare and aged residential care staff, reducing their chances of becoming unwell and supporting them to continue to provide care to those that need it. When to wear a face mask Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
11,382 new community cases 765 cases in hospital 68,737 active community cases 18,425 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 4,054 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,826 . Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 23 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 7 days. The Ministry of Health and Te Whatu Ora – Health NZ are closely monitoring the continued increase in COVID-19 positive cases and hospitalisations as part of our ongoing review and updating of the response to the current community outbreak. The increase in cases and hospitalisations emphasises the importance of everybody doing the basics well to help prevent infection and serious illness. In particular, people should: stay home if they are unwell take a rapid antigen test (RAT) upload the result on My Covid Record (external link) isolate if positive or while still symptomatic. It is important to ensure to you are up to date with all vaccinations, including COVID-19 vaccinations. Many are now eligible for a second booster dose, and flu vaccinations, which are free for many people. Get your COVID-19 vaccination Wearing a mask remains one of our best measures to reduce transmission against infectious respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. The more layers of protection we put in place — such as mask wearing, vaccinations, and staying home when sick — the more we reduce the risk of spreading respiratory viruses. Even if you are up to date with your vaccinations, or have had COVID-19, continuing to wear a face mask is important in keeping you, your whānau and your community safe. As a general rule, we urge people to wear a mask in public indoor settings outside the home and in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. You must wear a mask on public transport and at transport hubs like airports and bus stations, inside public venues like museums and libraries, when visiting a health care service, and inside retail businesses like supermarkets and shopping malls. Masking up is particularly important when around more vulnerable members of the community, especially those who are older, those in aged residential care and healthcare settings where appropriate. Wearing a mask also helps protect our healthcare and aged residential care staff, reducing their chances of becoming unwell and supporting them to continue to provide care to those that need it. When to wear a face mask Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
3,387 new community cases 536 cases in hospital 4,230 7-day rolling average of community cases 29,598 active community cases 6,359 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 2,442 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 3,387 community cases and 536 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 4,230 — last Monday, it was 5,288. The 7-day rolling average of hospitalisations is 570 — last Monday, it was 660. There are now a total of 1,750 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 14. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
10,470 new community cases 773 cases in hospital 69,924 active community cases 17,560 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,413 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 10,470 community cases, 773 current hospitalisations, and 16 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,994. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 16 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 11 days. The Ministry of Health and Te Whatu Ora – Health NZ are closely monitoring the continued increase in COVID-19 positive cases and hospitalisations as part of our ongoing review and updating of the response to the current community outbreak. The increase in cases and hospitalisations emphasises the importance of everybody doing the basics well to help prevent infection and serious illness. In particular, people should stay home if they are unwell, take a rapid antigen test (RAT) and upload the result on My Covid Record, and isolate if positive or while still symptomatic. If you’re heading out to pick up free RATs and masks, please check the Healthpoint website to find your nearest participating pharmacy as not all pharmacies are providing this service. People can also continue to request free COVID-19 RAT kits online. It is important to ensure you are up to date with all vaccinations, including COVID-19 vaccinations. Many are now eligible for a second booster dose, and flu vaccinations, which are free for many people. More about COVID-19 vaccine boosters | Ministry of Health (external link) More about flu vaccines | Ministry of Health (external link) Wearing a mask remains one of the best measures to reduce transmission of infectious respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. The more layers of protection people put in place — such as mask wearing, vaccinations, and staying home when sick — the more they reduce the risk of spreading respiratory viruses. Even if you’re fully vaccinated, or have had COVID-19, continuing to wear a face mask is important in keeping you, your whanau and your community safe. As a general rule, the Ministry urges people to wear a mask in public indoor settings outside the home and in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. You must wear a mask on public transport and at transport hubs like airports and bus stations, inside public venues like museums and libraries, when visiting a health care service, and inside retail businesses like supermarkets and shopping malls. Masking up is particularly important when around more vulnerable members of the community, especially those who are older, those in aged residential care and healthcare settings where appropriate. From Monday 18 July 2022, the access criteria for three antiviral treatments for COVID-19 will be widened to include a wider group of people at risk of severe illness from COVID-19 infection. This includes all people aged 75 years and over and those who have been admitted previously to an Intensive Care Unit directly as a result of COVID-19. Nirmatrelvir with ritonavir (branded as Paxlovid), molnupiravir (branded as Lagevrio) and remdesivir, an infusion treatment (branded as Veklury) are antivirals used in the community and hospitals to treat people with early COVID-19 at risk of severe illness. These antivirals reduce the risk of severe illness, which helps takes pressure off our health system. Among other things, this means GPs will be able to provide "back pocket" prescriptions so that people at risk of acute respiratory illnesses can have their prescription ready should they test positive and can then start taking the medicine promptly. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
7,612 new community cases 797 cases in hospital 67,774 active community cases 11,831 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 2,239 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 7,612 community cases, 797 current hospitalisations, and 22 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,689. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 22 people with COVID-19. They include 1 death from March, 2 deaths from April, 2 deaths from May and 2 deaths from June, which are being reported following completion of the cause of death assessment. In some instances it can take some time for the full clinical assessments to be finalised. The Ministry of Health and Te Whatu Ora —Health NZ are closely monitoring the continued increase in COVID-19 positive cases and hospitalisations as part of our ongoing review and updating of the response to the current community outbreak. The case, death and hospitalisation numbers emphasise the importance of everybody doing the basics well to help prevent infection and serious illness. In particular, people should stay home if they are unwell, take a rapid antigen test (RAT) and upload the result on My Covid Record, and isolate if positive or while still symptomatic. If you are heading out to pick up free RATs and masks, please check the Healthpoint website to find your nearest participating pharmacy — as not all pharmacies are providing this service. People can also continue to request free COVID-19 RAT kits online. It is important to ensure you are up to date with all vaccinations, including COVID-19 vaccinations. Many people are now eligible for a second booster dose, and flu vaccinations, which are free for many people. We want to remind people to keep up good public health habits to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and winter illnesses such as the flu. Simple measures can make a big difference, so we encourage people to wear a mask, physically distance, wash or sanitise your hands regularly, and stay home if you are unwell. Wearing a mask remains one of the best measures to reduce transmission of infectious respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. As a general rule, the Ministry of Health urges people to wear a mask in public indoor settings outside the home and in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. You must wear a mask on public transport and at transport hubs like airports and bus stations, inside public venues like museums and libraries, when visiting a health care service, and inside retail businesses like supermarkets and shopping malls. If you have cold and flu symptoms, it is important to get tested for COVID-19 and self-report the result — whether positive or negative — on My COVID Record. This helps us to understand the spread of COVID-19 and where to direct our public health resources. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
10,424 new community cases 788 cases in hospital 66,653 active community cases 18,167 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,210 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 10,424 community cases, 788 current hospitalisations, and 21 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,528. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 21 people with COVID-19. They include 1 death from April and 1 death from June, which are being reported following completion of the cause of death assessment. In some instances, it can take some time for the full clinical assessments to be finalised. The Ministry of Health and Te Whatu Ora — Health NZ are closely monitoring the continued increase in COVID-19 positive cases and hospitalisations as part of our ongoing review and updating of the response to the current community outbreak. The case, death and hospitalisation numbers emphasise the importance of everybody doing the basics well to help prevent infection and serious illness. In particular, people should stay home if they are unwell, take a rapid antigen test (RAT) and upload the result on My Covid Record, and isolate if positive or while still symptomatic. If you are heading out to pick up free RATs and face masks, please check the Healthpoint website (external link) to find your nearest participating pharmacy — as not all pharmacies are providing this service. People can also continue to request free COVID-19 RAT kits online (external link) . It is important to ensure you are up to date with all vaccinations, including COVID-19 vaccinations. Many people are now eligible for a second booster dose (external link) , and flu vaccinations, which are free for many people (external link) . Today we are reporting 2 community cases in Auckland with the Omicron BA.2.75 subvariant, the first time this subvariant has been detected in the community in New Zealand. Both cases are linked to known imported cases and are isolating at home. This is in addition to the 6 BA.2.75 reported cases previously reported, which are all associated with recent travel overseas. The Ministry of Health regularly assesses the latest evidence on variants to ensure that our public health settings are appropriate. At this stage, there is no evidence that BA.2.75 requires a shift in public health settings already in place to manage other Omicron variants. BA.2.75 is a recently identified second-generation subvariant of BA.2, the dominant variant circulating in New Zealand at this stage. BA.2.75 has only been recently identified as distinct from BA.2, and evidence on its transmissibility, immune evasiveness and severity is still preliminary and emerging. We do know BA.2.75 has some characteristics that look like they may enhance its ability to evade immunity, similar to the BA.4 and BA.5 Omicron subvariants, and there is some early evidence overseas that it may be slightly more transmissible than BA.2. There is no current evidence that it leads to more severe disease, although assessing the evidence is at a very early stage. We want to remind people to keep up good public health habits to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and winter illnesses such as the flu. Simple measures can make a big difference, so we encourage people to wear a mask, physically distance, wash or sanitise your hands regularly, and stay home if you are unwell. Wearing a mask remains one of the best measures to reduce transmission of infectious respiratory illnesses, including COVID-19. As a general rule, the Ministry of Health urges people to wear a mask in public indoor settings outside the home and in poorly ventilated spaces, or when it is hard to physically distance from other people. You must wear a mask on public transport and at transport hubs like airports and bus stations, inside public venues like museums and libraries, when visiting a health care service, and inside retail businesses like supermarkets and shopping malls. If you have cold and flu symptoms, it is important to get tested for COVID-19 and self-report the result — whether positive or negative — on My COVID Record. This helps us to understand the spread of COVID-19 and where to direct our public health resources. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
7,113 new community cases 738 cases in hospital 6,683 7-day rolling average of community cases 46,755 active community cases 14,422 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,199 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 7,113 community cases and 738 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,683 — last Tuesday, it was 8,335. There are now a total of 1,563 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 22. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
10,320 new community cases 744 cases in hospital 65,523 active community cases 17,853 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 4,103 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 10,320 community cases, 744 current hospitalisations, and 34 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,367. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 34 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 6 days. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
9,953 new community cases 767 cases in hospital 64,081 active community cases 17,515 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 4,306 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 9,953 community cases, 767 current hospitalisations, and 32 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 9,161. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 32 people with COVID-19. These deaths occurred in the period since 26th March. This update is provided each Thursday. Of the 75 people in Auckland and Counties Manukau hospitals for SARI illnesses (severe acute respiratory infection) COVID-19 was the cause the infection for 24%, Human Metapneumovirus was the cause for 15 % and Influenza was the cause for 11% Other causes of infection, where known, were rhinoviruses, enteroviruses, adenoviruses, parainfluenza virus and RSV (12%). The current rate of hospitalisations in Auckland and Counties Manukau is in line with rates seen in recent years. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
8,728 new community cases 8,913 7-day rolling average of community cases 759 cases in hospital 26 deaths 62,345 active community cases 15,475 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,711 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 8,728 community cases, 759 current hospitalisations, and 26 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 8,913. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 26 people with COVID-19. These deaths occurred in the period since 26 April. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
6,910 new community cases 8,498 7-day rolling average of community cases 836 cases in hospital 16 deaths 59,445 active community cases 11,088 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 2,352 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 6,910 community cases, 836 current hospitalisations, and 16 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 8,498. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 16 people with COVID-19. All these deaths occurred in the past 3 days. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
9,256 new community cases 8,335 7-day rolling average of community cases 822 cases in hospital 58,303 active community cases 17,653 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,117 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 9,256 community cases, and 822 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 8,335. There are now a total of 1,396 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average of the increase in deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 17. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
8,730 new community cases 808 cases in hospital 8,111 7-day rolling average of community cases 56,750 active community cases 16,393 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 4,084 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 8,730 community cases, and 808 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 8,111. There are now a total of 1,427 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average of the increase in deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 17. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link) Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. Speakers: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Deputy Director-General, Public Health Agency, Dr Andrew Old Interim National Medical Director, Te Whatu Ora Health New Zealand, Dr Pete Wilson. Watch the media conference | Ministry of Health (external link)
7,627 new community cases 827 cases in hospital 7,776 7-day rolling average of community cases 54,409 active community cases 15,345 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 8,029 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 7,627 community cases, and 827 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 7,776. There are now a total of 1,455 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average of the increase in deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 18. (This update is provided each Thursday) Of the 81 people in Auckland and Counties Manukau hospitals for SARI illnesses (severe acute respiratory infection) COVID-19 was the cause the infection for 7%, Human Metapneumovirus was the cause for 17% and influenza was the cause for 1%. Other causes of infection, where known, were rhinoviruses, enteroviruses, adenoviruses, parainfluenza virus and RSV (6%). The current rate of hospitalisations in Auckland and Counties Manukau is in line with rates seen in pre-COVID-19 years. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
7,605 new community cases 799 cases in hospital 7,618 7-day rolling average of community cases 53,301 active community cases 13,953 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 4,653 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 7,605 community cases and 799 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 7,618. There are now a total of 1,479 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The average increase in deaths each day attributable to COVID-19, over the past 7 days, is now 18. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
6,440 new community cases 704 cases in hospital 6,355 7-day rolling average of community cases 44,462 active community cases 12,836 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,858 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 6,440 community cases and 704 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,355 — last Wednesday it was 8,111. There are now a total of 1,589 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 22. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
5,296 new community cases 605 cases in hospital 5,812 7-day rolling average of community cases 40,673 active community cases 11,364 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,381 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 5,296 community cases and 605 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 5,812 – last Friday it was 7618. There are now a total of 1,624 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 20. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
4,006 new community cases 654 cases in hospital 5,288 7-day rolling average of community cases 37,007 active community cases 7,278 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 1,972 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 4,006 community cases and 654 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 5,288. Last Monday it was 6,990. There are now a total of 1,638 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 14. COVID-19’s vaccination data is currently undergoing a technical update, which will mean some changes in reported vaccination rates. These will be routinely published from Wednesday (10 August), in line with our normal weekly reporting cycle. These changes are the result of Te Whatu Ora – Health New Zealand moving to using 2021 Health System User (HSU) data, replacing the 2020 HSU data that has been previously used. As a result, we will be adding a larger group of New Zealanders to the list of those who are eligible for COVID-19 vaccinations, as part of improvements to the vaccination programme. Moving to the 2021 HSU data will mean a technical decrease in reported vaccination rates overall because of the larger number of eligible New Zealanders being identified. However, they will make no difference to the total number of New Zealanders vaccinated, which remains the same and will continue to increase as more people are vaccinated. This decrease in the overall vaccine rate is because, while we have the same number of people vaccinated, we are now dividing that number by a larger group of eligible people. This larger group now includes people who have used health services during the 2021 calendar year, that were not captured in the 2020 HSU data. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
5,169 new community cases 599 cases in hospital 4,938 7-day rolling average of community cases 34,545 active community cases 11,222 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 3,935 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 5,169 community cases and 599 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 4,938. Last Wednesday it was 6,355. There are now a total of 1,705 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 15. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
5,939 new community cases 634 cases in hospital 5,120 7-day rolling average of community cases 35,823 active community cases 12,729 total RATs reported in the last 24 hours 4,454 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours COVID-19 data and statistics --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 5,939 community cases and 634 current hospitalisations. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 5,120. Last Monday it was 6,683. There are now a total of 1,688 deaths confirmed as attributable to COVID-19, either as the underlying cause of death or as a contributing factor. The 7-day rolling average increase in total deaths attributable to COVID-19 is now 16. Read the full update on today's cases | Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 11-20 of 1043 updates 02 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Jul 2022 New Zealand’s international border opens to all visitors, including from non-visa waiver countries, and international students from 11:59pm, 31 July 2022. 31 Jul 2022 The same vaccination rules for passengers arriving by air will apply to arrivals on cruise ships and recreational vessels such as ocean-going yachts. 29 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 1001-1010 of 1043 updates 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 1011-1020 of 1043 updates 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine.
Displaying 1021-1030 of 1043 updates 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm.
Displaying 1031-1040 of 1043 updates 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials.
Displaying 1041-1043 of 1043 updates 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 21-30 of 1043 updates 21 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Jul 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 12pm. 18 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 14 Jul 2022 The Government is rolling out additional measures to help tackle the second Omicron wave and record levels of flu to ease pressure on the health system. 14 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 14 Jul 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 12:30pm. 13 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 31-40 of 1043 updates 12 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Jul 2022 A computer glitch that double counted some cases already reported yesterday resulted in today’s case numbers being incorrectly reported. 08 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Jul 2022 Employers can consider text messages the Ministry of Health sends to people with COVID-19 and their household contacts as proof of needing time off work. 04 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 41-50 of 1043 updates 30 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 Jun 2022 New Zealand will remain at Orange, but enhanced measures for schools and a change in reinfection advice will help reduce the spread of COVID-19. 29 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Jun 2022 From 2 July 2022, the Government is removing the requirement for border and correction workers to be fully vaccinated. 28 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jun 2022 The Government is ramping up access to free flu vaccines and COVID-19 booster shots. 23 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Jun 2022 Wearing a mask plays an important part in reducing the spread of winter illness. 22 Jun 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 12:20pm.
Displaying 51-60 of 1043 updates 21 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Jun 2022 Border workers will no longer be required to undergo COVID-19 testing from 1 July 2022. 16 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 16 Jun 2022 Travellers to New Zealand will no longer need a COVID-19 pre-departure test from 11:59pm Monday 20 June 2022. 15 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 14 Jun 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 13 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Home News and data Media conferences Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. --- Section Separator --- There is a media briefing at noon on 4 August 2022. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 media conference — 4 August 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 19 July 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 14 July 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 22 June 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 14 June 2022 --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Home Prepare and stay safe Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. What you need to know When to wear a mask Check your symptoms Long COVID COVID-19 variants Mental health support Report false information --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants, symptoms, and what we know about Long COVID. Advice for people who are at higher risk of more severe illness if they get COVID-19. We all need to be prepared to self-isolate if we get COVID-19, or are a Household Contact. This checklist can help you and your whānau make a plan. Learn how you can help slow the spread of COVID-19 by keeping up habits such as wearing a face mask and staying home when sick. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. Emergency services operate at all traffic light settings. If you need urgent help in an emergency, call 111 immediately even if you and your household are isolating. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants, symptoms, and what we know about Long COVID. Advice for people who are at higher risk of more severe illness if they get COVID-19. We all need to be prepared to self-isolate if we get COVID-19, or are a Household Contact. This checklist can help you and your whānau make a plan. Learn how you can help slow the spread of COVID-19 by keeping up habits such as wearing a face mask and staying home when sick. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. Emergency services operate at all traffic light settings. If you need urgent help in an emergency, call 111 immediately even if you and your household are isolating. --- Section Separator --- This section contains information for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. --- Section Separator --- This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for older people. --- Section Separator --- Find the latest information and advice for whānau, hapū, and iwi Māori. --- Section Separator --- Find the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities, including translations. --- Section Separator --- Misinformation about COVID-19 works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. If you have COVID-19 Some people who have tested positive for COVID-19 can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. This includes 1 follow-up check with your healthcare provider if required during those 6 weeks, once your acute episode of COVID-19 is over. After you have had the follow-up check, if you require one, and you no longer have acute COVID-19, you will then need to pay for your future visits to your doctor and prescription dispensing fees, just as you would for other medical conditions, even if it is within the 6-week period. If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since a previous infection (either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms) and: you are low risk, you do not need to take another test — stay home and recover, until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms you have an underlying health condition or have COVID-19-like symptoms that are getting worse, you should seek advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. Get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why air ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off a surface is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough sore throat chest tightness chest pain difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' difficulty sleeping pins and needles dizziness joint pain muscle pain. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | Ministry of Health (external link) Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster Post COVID-19 condition | World Health Organization (external link) Long COVID | Health Navigator (external link) --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. If you have COVID-19 Some people who have tested positive for COVID-19 can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. --- Section Separator --- You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. This includes 1 follow-up check with your healthcare provider if required during those 6 weeks, once your acute episode of COVID-19 is over. After you have had the follow-up check, if you require one, and you no longer have acute COVID-19, you will then need to pay for your future visits to your doctor and prescription dispensing fees, just as you would for other medical conditions, even if it is within the 6-week period. --- Section Separator --- If you get COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 28 days or fewer since a previous infection (either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms) and: you are low risk, you do not need to take another test — stay home and recover, until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms you have an underlying health condition or have COVID-19-like symptoms that are getting worse, you should seek advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms again and it has been 29 days or more since a previous infection, you should take a RAT. If it is positive, you must self-isolate and follow the same advice as for your first infection. Get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why air ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off a surface is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover from the acute signs and symptoms within 2 to 4 weeks. And they should be back to all activities they were doing before COVID-19 by 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough sore throat chest tightness chest pain difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' difficulty sleeping pins and needles dizziness joint pain muscle pain. For support with the management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Post COVID-19 condition | World Health Organization (external link) Long COVID | Health Navigator (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 What is COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | World Health Organization (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants and has a framework to prepare and respond to any new variants of concern. COVID-19 variants | Ministry of Health (external link) Omicron was first classified as a variant of concern by WHO in November 2021. It has spread worldwide and is now the major variant in many countries. It is more transmissible than previous variants of the virus, including Delta. Compared to Delta, Omicron: is more transmissible causes similar symptoms, but because we have a highly vaccinated population, many people may not have any symptoms (though could still pass the virus on to others) has resulted in many more people being hospitalised than at any other time in the pandemic, because Omicron can cause many more infections over a short period of time can still cause severe illness and even death, especially in people who are at high risk of severe outcomes, such as older people and people with underlying health conditions. Omicron, like other variants, continues to change. New Omicron sub-variants BA.2.12.1, BA.4 and BA.5, which are circulating in New Zealand, are likely to replace BA.2 as the main sub-variants in New Zealand. BA.2.75 has recently arrived in New Zealand. It is a second-generation subvariant of BA.2. Initial evidence suggests it may be slightly more transmissible, but assessing BA.2.75 is still at an early stage. Although there continue to be new variants of Omicron, there does not appear to have been a change in the severity of the disease due to these variants. The public health settings already in place to manage current Omicron variants are appropriate for managing the subvariants present in our community. To identify which variant a person has, there needs to be whole-genome sequencing. This can happen through a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. We have a system in place to identify any new variants arriving in New Zealand. People who arrive from overseas and test positive with a rapid antigen test (RAT) should have a follow-up PCR test to identify the variant they have. COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why air ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off a surface is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 There are m edicines to treat COVID-19 available for people who are at risk of developing a serious illness. When taken early on in your COVID-19 illness, they can help you get better faster and stay out of hospital. Medicines to treat COVID-19 Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy with the COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic lights) is for New Zealanders to connect with friends and whānau, while also protecting everyone from serious illness. We do this through: testing anyone with symptoms hygiene measures such as washing our hands and wearing a face mask testing and tracing potential contacts isolating cases and their contacts. Traffic lights High rates of vaccination is New Zealand’s key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19, and central to the settings in the framework. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help monitor COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of symptomatic people in the community. Wastewater testing for COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) The Institute of Environmental Science and Research (ESR) tests wastewater around the country. An interactive dashboard shares ESR’s wastewater science. It can help you track potential COVID-19 risk in your area. COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | Institute of Environmental Science and Research (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. --- Section Separator --- It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | World Health Organization (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants and has a framework to prepare and respond to any new variants of concern. COVID-19 variants | Ministry of Health (external link) Omicron was first classified as a variant of concern by WHO in November 2021. It has spread worldwide and is now the major variant in many countries. It is more transmissible than previous variants of the virus, including Delta. Compared to Delta, Omicron: is more transmissible causes similar symptoms, but because we have a highly vaccinated population, many people may not have any symptoms (though could still pass the virus on to others) has resulted in many more people being hospitalised than at any other time in the pandemic, because Omicron can cause many more infections over a short period of time can still cause severe illness and even death, especially in people who are at high risk of severe outcomes, such as older people and people with underlying health conditions. Omicron, like other variants, continues to change. New Omicron sub-variants BA.2.12.1, BA.4 and BA.5, which are circulating in New Zealand, are likely to replace BA.2 as the main sub-variants in New Zealand. BA.2.75 has recently arrived in New Zealand. It is a second-generation subvariant of BA.2. Initial evidence suggests it may be slightly more transmissible, but assessing BA.2.75 is still at an early stage. Although there continue to be new variants of Omicron, there does not appear to have been a change in the severity of the disease due to these variants. The public health settings already in place to manage current Omicron variants are appropriate for managing the subvariants present in our community. To identify which variant a person has, there needs to be whole-genome sequencing. This can happen through a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. We have a system in place to identify any new variants arriving in New Zealand. People who arrive from overseas and test positive with a rapid antigen test (RAT) should have a follow-up PCR test to identify the variant they have. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. COVID-19 is mostly spread by aerosols, which is why air ventilation is important. Getting COVID-19 off a surface is less common, but it is still important to clean surfaces to reduce the risk. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- There are m edicines to treat COVID-19 available for people who are at risk of developing a serious illness. When taken early on in your COVID-19 illness, they can help you get better faster and stay out of hospital. Medicines to treat COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy with the COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic lights) is for New Zealanders to connect with friends and whānau, while also protecting everyone from serious illness. We do this through: testing anyone with symptoms hygiene measures such as washing our hands and wearing a face mask testing and tracing potential contacts isolating cases and their contacts. Traffic lights High rates of vaccination is New Zealand’s key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19, and central to the settings in the framework. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help monitor COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of symptomatic people in the community. Wastewater testing for COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) The Institute of Environmental Science and Research (ESR) tests wastewater around the country. An interactive dashboard shares ESR’s wastewater science. It can help you track potential COVID-19 risk in your area. COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | Institute of Environmental Science and Research (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Our response to Omicron
This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. Popular topics What happens if you get COVID-19 Get a COVID-19 test Get RATs delivered If you cannot wear a face mask If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 About the traffic light system Get a booster Translations --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 disability helpline can provide assistance with vaccines, applying for face mask exemptions, advice on COVID-19 testing, and guidance with managing COVID-19 at home. This includes if your support worker or carer is unavailable. Call 0800 11 12 13 . The COVID-19 welfare phone line can help if you are self-isolating and need food or other essential items. Call 0800 512 337 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- You may need a test if: you have symptoms of COVID-19 you live with someone who has COVID-19 you are travelling your job needs you to take tests. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 312 KB] You can order RATs online or over the phone to use at home. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. You will need access to a mobile phone to order online. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. Order RATs online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Order over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. Find your nearest testing centre: COVID-19 testing sites | Healthpoint (external link) Talk to your doctor or residential care provider. You can also get free advice from the Disability Healthline. Call 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 . If you have mobility or other accessibility challenges and are unable to leave your home to get to a collection site, you can arrange to have a RAT kit delivered to you. Free call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Report your positive or negative RAT result by phone or online. Reporting a result means you can get extra support if you need it while self-isolating. Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Online: My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- Report your positive RAT result online or over the phone. Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Online: My Covid Record (external link) If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with trusted, up-to-date information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so that you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . You need to self-isolate for 7 days. This means you must stay at home and try to avoid contact with people you live with. The people you live with also need to isolate. Start counting from Day 0. This is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive (whichever came first). Use the household isolation timeline tool (external link) Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 7 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. Advice for carers on supporting someone who has COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. --- Section Separator --- A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. You can get a booster now if: you are aged 18 or over and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course you are aged 16 or 17 and it has been 6 months since you completed your primary course. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition Some people who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. Vaccination for people who are severely immunocompromised | health.govt.nz (external link) A second booster is recommended for those at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a minimum of 6 months after a first booster. We will update this page with information about who is eligible and how to book in the next few weeks. To book your vaccination or get advice: call the Disability Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 text free to 8988 email accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz --- Section Separator --- Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. --- Section Separator --- Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. --- Section Separator --- Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Financial support Support is available if you need it when self-isolating because of COVID-19. Help when you are self-isolating If you test positive, let your support provider know that you have COVID-19 so they can put protective measures in place. Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow appropriate infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | Ministry of Health (external link) If you need urgent support and your support worker or carer is unavailable, you can call the dedicated disability helpline on 0800 11 12 13 . This could be if: your support worker is unavailable and cannot provide the essential support you need you are unable to reach the organisation that normally provides your care there is no one available to provide the support you need. The 0800 11 12 13 service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, from 8am to 8pm. A person with experience or knowledge of disability will answer the call and assess the urgency of your situation and provide advice or assistance. After 8pm, calls will be answered by a trained member of the Healthline team. The call centre will work with you to determine what needs to happen, how urgent your situation is and if medical or other emergency services are needed. As always, if there is an emergency, or there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. Call the Ministry of Social Development's free COVID-19 Welfare line on 0800 512 337 . They can help you with: food and essential items mobile data so you can keep in contact with friends and whānau support for personal care or daily tasks talking to your employer if you are worried about your leave or pay mental health support support with family or sexual violence. Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others from COVID-19. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. For some people, an impairment, disability, or physical or mental health condition can mean wearing a mask is not possible. If you have a legitimate reason that means wearing a face mask is not suitable, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can also request a card by calling 0800 11 12 13 or by texting 8988. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- We are protecting Aoteroa New Zealand from COVID-19 using a system called the 'traffic lights'. Its official name is the COVID-19 Protection Framework. My Vaccine Passes are no longer required. Some businesses may choose to keep using them. You do not need to scan in when visiting a business or venue. There is a 200-person limit for indoor gatherings and events. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for disabled people If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If your support worker gets COVID-19, the disability support organisation they are from is responsible for finding a replacement. In some cases, they may only be able to provide essential services while your regular support worker recovers. Your support provider will check in with you about any changes. If you would prefer that a family member or friend support you instead, discuss this with your disability support organisation. If you usually get support from a family member or friend, or you individually contract support people, make a plan for alternate support in case they get COVID-19. Options could include: another family member or friend providing care for you over this time a paid carer to be arranged through a care support agency contacting your local Needs Assessment Service Co-ordination service (NASC). If you receive disability funded support, they will put you in contact with a disability support provider. Needs Assessment and Service Coordination services | health.govt.nz (external link) If you live in the same home as your carer, and they are well enough to continue providing care, they can do so. They will need appropriate infection prevention control and personal protective equipment. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) If you receive support in your home, it is important to have a support plan. This should include your important health information and care routines. If your regular carer becomes unwell and you need emergency care, this plan can be shared with the new carer. This means your care and support can continue safely. Your disability support provider can help you create a plan. You can also use the emergency care planning tools available on the Carers New Zealand website. Emergency care planning tools | carers.net.nz (external link) There are a few things to consider, specific to COVID-19: tolerance with medication tolerance around needles, etc tolerance around masks and nasal prongs anticipated staffing/supervision requirements. If you need urgent support and your support worker or carer is unavailable, you can call the dedicated COVID-19 disability helpline on 0800 11 12 13 . This could be if: your support worker is unavailable and cannot provide the essential support you need you are unable to reach the organisation that normally provides your care there is no one available to provide the support you need. The service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Between 8am to 8pm a person with experience or knowledge of disability will answer the call and assess the urgency of your situation and provide advice or assistance. After 8pm, calls will be answered by a trained member of the Healthline team. The call centre will work with you to determine what needs to happen, how urgent your situation is and if medical or other emergency services are needed. As always, if there is an emergency, or there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. --- Section Separator --- If your support worker gets COVID-19, the disability support organisation they are from is responsible for finding a replacement. In some cases, they may only be able to provide essential services while your regular support worker recovers. Your support provider will check in with you about any changes. If you would prefer that a family member or friend support you instead, discuss this with your disability support organisation. --- Section Separator --- If you usually get support from a family member or friend, or you individually contract support people, make a plan for alternate support in case they get COVID-19. Options could include: another family member or friend providing care for you over this time a paid carer to be arranged through a care support agency contacting your local Needs Assessment Service Co-ordination service (NASC). If you receive disability funded support, they will put you in contact with a disability support provider. Needs Assessment and Service Coordination services | health.govt.nz (external link) If you live in the same home as your carer, and they are well enough to continue providing care, they can do so. They will need appropriate infection prevention control and personal protective equipment. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you receive support in your home, it is important to have a support plan. This should include your important health information and care routines. If your regular carer becomes unwell and you need emergency care, this plan can be shared with the new carer. This means your care and support can continue safely. Your disability support provider can help you create a plan. You can also use the emergency care planning tools available on the Carers New Zealand website. Emergency care planning tools | carers.net.nz (external link) There are a few things to consider, specific to COVID-19: tolerance with medication tolerance around needles, etc tolerance around masks and nasal prongs anticipated staffing/supervision requirements. --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent support and your support worker or carer is unavailable, you can call the dedicated COVID-19 disability helpline on 0800 11 12 13 . This could be if: your support worker is unavailable and cannot provide the essential support you need you are unable to reach the organisation that normally provides your care there is no one available to provide the support you need. The service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Between 8am to 8pm a person with experience or knowledge of disability will answer the call and assess the urgency of your situation and provide advice or assistance. After 8pm, calls will be answered by a trained member of the Healthline team. The call centre will work with you to determine what needs to happen, how urgent your situation is and if medical or other emergency services are needed. As always, if there is an emergency, or there is a threat to your life or property, call 111 immediately. --- Section Separator --- Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 Support and information for seniors
This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for older people. Popular topics Large Print and audio Protect yourself from COVID-19 Get a booster Get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 Get support Face mask advice Traffic light settings --- Section Separator --- For free health advice, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you are self-isolating and need food or other essential items, call the COVID-19 welfare phone line on 0800 512 337 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- Information about our response to COVID-19 — including vaccination, self-isolation guidance and traffic light settings — is available in Large Print and audio. Large Print and audio --- Section Separator --- You may need a test if: you have symptoms of COVID-19 you live with someone who has COVID-19 you are travelling your job needs you to take tests. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. You can order RATs online or over the phone to use at home. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. You will need access to a mobile phone to order online. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. Order RATs online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Order over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. Find your nearest testing centre: COVID-19 testing sites | Healthpoint (external link) Talk to your doctor or residential care provider. You can also get free advice from Healthline — call 0800 358 5453 If you cannot leave your home, you may be able to to have a RAT kit delivered to you. Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Report your positive or negative RAT result by phone or online. Reporting a result means you can get extra support if you need it while self-isolating. Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Online: My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- Report your positive RAT result online or over the phone. Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Online: My Covid Record (external link) If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with trusted, up-to-date information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . You need to self-isolate for 7 days. This means you must stay at home and try to avoid contact with people you live with. The people you live with also need to isolate. Start counting from Day 0. This is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive (whichever came first). Use the household isolation timeline tool (external link) Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 7 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. Find information on the Health Navigator website about keeping safe, testing and getting support. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. Find information on the Health Navigator website about keeping safe, testing and getting support. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. --- Section Separator --- A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. People aged 18 and over can get a booster if it has been 3 months since they completed their primary course. For most people, this is 2 doses. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition To book your vaccination or get advice, call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26. Some people who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. Vaccination for people who are severely immunocompromised | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Financial support Support is available if you need it when self-isolating because of COVID-19. Help when you are self-isolating If you test positive, tell your support provider so they can put protective measures in place. Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 Call the Ministry of Social Development's free COVID-19 Welfare line on 0800 512 337 . They can help you with: food and essential items mobile data so you can keep in contact with friends and whānau support for personal care or daily tasks talking to your employer if you are worried about your leave or pay mental health support support with family or sexual violence. Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others from COVID-19. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. You still need to order through the Request free COVID-19 RAT kits website. Request free RATs | Ministry of Health (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) Some people cannot wear masks. If you have a legitimate reason for not wearing a face mask, such as a disability or a physical or mental health condition, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. Online: Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass | Ministry of Health (external link) Over the phone: 0800 11 12 13 By text: 8988 --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- We are protecting Aoteroa New Zealand from COVID-19 using a system called the 'traffic lights'. Its official name is the COVID-19 Protection Framework. My Vaccine Passes are no longer required. Some businesses may choose to keep using them. You do not need to scan in when visiting a business or venue. There is a 200-person limit for indoor gatherings and events. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing.
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits COVID-19 is in the community. To slow the spread and continue to protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. --- Section Separator --- Face masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. They are useful in poorly ventilated indoor areas and when you are around people you do not know. They stop particles spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This is particularly useful when someone has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. You must wear a face mask in some locations. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. COVID-19 symptoms How to get a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. You should wash your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth, if your hands are not clean. Using hand sanitiser is also effective at killing germs and viruses. It destroys the protective bubble of the virus, but only if the sanitiser has at least 60% alcohol. Sanitiser is also effective in reducing the number and type of germs on your hands. --- Section Separator --- Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash your hands thoroughly. This will catch the droplets and keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. --- Section Separator --- Clean surfaces regularly. This includes frequently touched items like door handles, light switches and phones. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- Good ventilation helps remove COVID-19 virus particles in the air. We encourage you to let in fresh air every day, including after someone visits your home. If you can, partly open a window about 5cm for most of the day. Or open windows for at least 15 minutes as often as possible, whenever it is practical to do so. If your windows do not open, check if your ventilation system filters (cleans) the air. Ventilation and COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You are not required to maintain physical distance from others in the traffic light system. But it is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it is in the community. --- Section Separator --- As Omicron is now widespread, we no longer need to contact trace individual cases. This means you do not need to keep a record of where you have been for contact tracing purposes. In case you do test positive for COVID-19, it is still a good idea to: keep track of people you have been with record any high-risk locations you have visited, for example hospitals or aged care facilities keep Bluetooth tracing turned on. We encourage you to not remove the NZ COVID Tracer app from your phone just yet. Bluetooth tracing is still being used to notify people if they have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing | Ministry of Health (external link) The contact tracing system may need to return if another variant of concern arrives in New Zealand. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can get a booster if it has been at least 3 months since your second dose. Vaccination remains one of the best tools in the fight against COVID-19. Even if you have had COVID-19, getting a booster once enough time has passed gives you another a layer of protection from the virus. Being up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccinations also helps protect people who are more at risk of becoming seriously ill from the virus and people who cannot be vaccinated such as babies and children under 5 years old. COVID-19 vaccines
Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. Find out when you must wear them, how to wear them safely, who is exempt, and how to get free face masks. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help prevent the spread of COVID-19 in 2 ways. They reduce the number of virus particles someone with COVID-19 can spread. They prevent you from inhaling virus particles. The best protection is when everyone wears a face mask. How to wear a face mask safely --- Section Separator --- You can get free medical face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. You still need to order through the Request free COVID-19 RAT kits website. Request free RATs | Ministry of Health (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find where a mask does not need to be worn, who does not need to wear one, and how to get a Mask Exemption Pass if you need one. Different types of face masks offer different protection. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting with no gaps and used correctly and consistently. This will help to protect you and others from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. It should go over your nose, mouth and chin. It should be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides. You can easily make a fabric face mask. It should have 3 layers, with 1 layer of moisture-resistant fabric. It should have loops around your ears or head. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find where a mask does not need to be worn, who does not need to wear one, and how to get a Mask Exemption Pass if you need one. Different types of face masks offer different protection. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting with no gaps and used correctly and consistently. This will help to protect you and others from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. It should go over your nose, mouth and chin. It should be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides. You can easily make a fabric face mask. It should have 3 layers, with 1 layer of moisture-resistant fabric. It should have loops around your ears or head. --- Section Separator --- How face masks work to protect you and others from COVID-19 The importance of masks with Dr Ashley Bloomfield How to wear a face mask safely Be mindful of masks --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Face masks How to make a face mask --- Section Separator --- You can still make and wear fabric face masks. Fabric face masks should have at least 3 layers and are effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. They must be attached to your head with loops around your ears or head — you cannot use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts that have been pulled up over your face. Your face mask should cover your nose, mouth and chin. When you must wear a face mask Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Moisture-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Optional: Swap a cotton piece of fabric for a non-woven fabric like spunbond to enhance filtration, 19.5 x 19 cm Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. To enhance filtration of your face mask, you can swap the inner layer to use spunbond. Cut out a rectangle from the moisture-resistant fabric for the outer layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take the outer piece of fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of fabric together (with the spunbond in the middle, if using). Make sure the moisture-resistant fabric that will be on the outside of your face mask is turned inwards here. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face mask in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. --- Section Separator --- You can still make and wear fabric face masks. Fabric face masks should have at least 3 layers and are effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. They must be attached to your head with loops around your ears or head — you cannot use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts that have been pulled up over your face. Your face mask should cover your nose, mouth and chin. When you must wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Tightly woven cotton fabric, 39 x 19 cm Moisture-resistant fabric, 19.5 x 19 cm. You can use nylon or polypropylene, for example a running-short fabric. 2 x 20 cm pieces of elastic Measuring tape Scissors Pins Cotton thread Sewing machine Optional: Swap a cotton piece of fabric for a non-woven fabric like spunbond to enhance filtration, 19.5 x 19 cm Cut out 2 rectangles from your tightly woven cotton fabric, each measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. To enhance filtration of your face mask, you can swap the inner layer to use spunbond. Cut out a rectangle from the moisture-resistant fabric for the outer layer, measuring 19.5 cm x 19 cm. Cut 2 pieces of elastic, each measuring 20 cm long. Take the outer piece of fabric, with the side you want facing outwards turned up. Pin the ends of the elastic to the sides of your fabric. Make a semi-circle with your elastic so it does not catch when you sew it. Pin the elastic in place. Lay your pieces of fabric together (with the spunbond in the middle, if using). Make sure the moisture-resistant fabric that will be on the outside of your face mask is turned inwards here. Pin all the pieces together. Stitch your fabric together with a 6 mm seam allowance. Leave a small opening on one side. Turn the fabric right side out and sew a 3 mm seam around the outside to close the opening and finish the edges neatly. Make 3 evenly spaced folds along the right and left sides of your face covering. Pin these in place. To complete your face covering, stitch across the pleats, 3 mm away from your first line of stitching. Wash your face mask in hot water and detergent, either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry your face covering completely before using it. --- Section Separator --- Face masks When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Keep track of where you have been Ventilation and COVID-19
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Face masks How to wear a face mask safely --- Section Separator --- Never share face masks with other people. Your face mask should go over your nose, mouth and chin. It should be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides. Do not re-use a face mask once it has become damp, damaged or dirty. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. They still have the right to access food and services. Before you put on your face mask, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Place the face mask over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face mask should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. The effectiveness of a face mask can be improved by making sure your mask is tightly fitted to prevent any air gaps between the mask and your face. Clean or sanitise your hands first. Fold the mask top to bottom. Tie a knot where the string attaches to the mask and pull tight. Do this on both sides of the mask. Place the face mask over your nose, mouth and chin. Fit the mask comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face. Make sure you mould the nose wire to your nose and there are no gaps at the sides. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your mask down below your chin. Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your mask off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the mask, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth masks by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the mask completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp mask. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put masks in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face masks. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. How to put on and take off a medical face mask [PDF, 287 KB] How to put on and take off a P2/N95 face mask [PDF, 695 KB] How to make your medical face mask fit tightly [PDF, 146 KB] --- Section Separator --- Never share face masks with other people. Your face mask should go over your nose, mouth and chin. It should be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides. Do not re-use a face mask once it has become damp, damaged or dirty. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. They still have the right to access food and services. --- Section Separator --- Before you put on your face mask, clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Make sure it is: clean dry not damaged. Place the face mask over your nose and mouth, then secure it with ties or ear loops. The face mask should: fully cover your nose, mouth and chin fit comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face allow you to breathe easily. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- The effectiveness of a face mask can be improved by making sure your mask is tightly fitted to prevent any air gaps between the mask and your face. Clean or sanitise your hands first. Fold the mask top to bottom. Tie a knot where the string attaches to the mask and pull tight. Do this on both sides of the mask. Place the face mask over your nose, mouth and chin. Fit the mask comfortably, but securely, against the side of your face. Make sure you mould the nose wire to your nose and there are no gaps at the sides. --- Section Separator --- If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. If you touch your face or the front of your mask, thoroughly wash and dry your hands. Do not pull your mask down below your chin. --- Section Separator --- Clean and dry your hands. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. Take your mask off from behind and pull it away from your face. Use the loops or untie it. Do not touch the front of the mask, and be careful not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth. Clean cloth masks by washing them with detergent in hot water. You can do it either by hand or in a washing machine. Dry the mask completely before you use it again. Do not use a damp mask. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put masks in the recycling. Do not re-use or try to disinfect single-use face masks. Use either: soap and water, or hand sanitiser that is at least 60% alcohol. --- Section Separator --- How to put on and take off a medical face mask [PDF, 287 KB] How to put on and take off a P2/N95 face mask [PDF, 695 KB] How to make your medical face mask fit tightly [PDF, 146 KB] --- Section Separator --- Face masks When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Keep track of where you have been Ventilation and COVID-19
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Face masks Types of face masks --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. To be effective, a face mask should: go over your nose, mouth and chin be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides be used correctly and consistently not be damp, damaged or dirty. A face mask that is not fitted correctly may become ineffective. It may not offer enough protection for you or those around you against COVID-19 spreading. How to wear a face mask safely Different types of face masks can provide different levels of protection, depending on the type of mask and how they are used. You should find a face mask that best fits you. There are several things you should think about when choosing a face mask for you. This includes: your risk of illness from COVID-19 how well the face mask fits you layers and the filtration ability of the material comfort of the face mask. Whatever face mask you choose, remember any face mask is better than no face mask. You can use a fabric face mask. The effectiveness of fabric face masks can vary depending on the style and materials used. You should look for reusable fabric face masks that have at least 3 layers and are made of tightly woven fabric, such as cotton. Ideally face masks should also use 2 different types of fabric that still allow easy breathing but provide filtration and a good fit. Face masks with more than one layer will help contain any respiratory droplets. You can increase protection of your fabric face mask by adding a ‘filter layer’ and a nose bridge wire to mould the face mask to your face. A filter layer could be a specific face mask filter or a cut-down disposable face mask to add to a face mask pocket. Fabric face masks can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. Taking care of your face mask is important. You should wash fabric face masks daily using soap and hot water, and completely dry them before using again. You should have enough face masks to at least wash one and wear one. Check for wear and tear to make sure there are no holes and they are still in good condition. Many stores and online retailers offer these types of face masks. You can also make your own but make sure it has at least 3 layers. How to make a face covering Disposable face masks with ear loops can offer better protection for a longer period than fabric face masks. Especially when you are in a higher-risk indoor setting. These are the widely available ‘blue’ medical masks. They are often called ‘medical’, ‘surgical’ and ‘procedural’ masks. For use in healthcare, they must comply to a certain standard. Many surgical masks may not be certified to medical standards, but still provide effective protection. You can find these at many retail stores, supermarkets or pharmacies. Some relevant social services agencies or organisations may also be able to provide some. To make these masks fit better and get a snug fit: pinch the nose wire try layering them with a fabric mask over top knot the ear loops where they attach to the mask, then fold and tuck excess material under the edges try pulling the ear loops back and securing them with a hair tie or clip. How to wear a face mask safely Try to avoid twisting the ear loop into a figure 8, as this will likely cause a side gap that could let virus particles in. Double masking or layering can provide greater protection. The other layer, preferably a fabric mask, can help stop any leaks around the top and sides of the bottom mask. To reuse these masks, you can soak them in warm, hot or boiling water for a few minutes and hang them out to dry. You can do this up to 10 times. When they start to show wear or no longer have a good fit, dispose of them. Disposable high-filtration face masks or particulate respirators offer the highest level of protection, when used correctly. For people who are at greater risk of severe illness from COVID-19 the use of a P2/N95 face mask may be a better choice for you. If you choose to wear this type of face mask, it is important to follow the manufacturer's instructions on how to mold these face masks to your face. You need to make sure there are no gaps and you have a tight seal against your face. These face masks can offer hours of protection when in high-risk indoor settings where there is no or little ventilation. But they need to have a very tight seal around the face to provide better protection than a well-fitting medical mask. In healthcare settings, these face masks work best when a person is ‘fit tested’ to make sure they have the right type of face mask that suits their face. You can reuse these face masks several times if you leave them for 5 to 7 days between each use. If they no longer provide a tight seal around your face, then you should dispose of them. Particulate respirator face masks come in a variety of models, prices, availability and suitability. They are often identified by which international regulatory standard they meet. P2 is the Australia/New Zealand respiratory standard. N95 is the United States respiratory standard. KN95 is the Chinese respiratory standard. FFP2 is the European respiratory standard. Choose a face mask for children that fits them best, is comfortable to wear and can be worn consistently. The face mask should cover their nose, mouth, and chin without gaps above, below or on the sides. This can be a reusable fabric mask with 3 layers or a medical disposable mask. Many fabric masks (either purchased or made) come in child sizes. For commonly available medical masks, you can use the knot and tuck technique to improve the fit to a child's face. How to make a face mask fit tightly These types of face masks or coverings provide very little protection against transmission of COVID-19. A face shield is not recommended to be worn instead of a face mask as it will provide very little protection against droplets or aerosol spray. Dust masks or particulate respirators that have a 1-way valve are not recommended as they can allow particles from you to spread to others. Masks that are showing wear and tear. If there is any thinning of the material, holes, or the ties or elastic loops can no longer keep the mask in place, you should replace it. Scarves, bandannas, buffs or t-shirts are no longer acceptable as face coverings. --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. To be effective, a face mask should: go over your nose, mouth and chin be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides be used correctly and consistently not be damp, damaged or dirty. A face mask that is not fitted correctly may become ineffective. It may not offer enough protection for you or those around you against COVID-19 spreading. How to wear a face mask safely --- Section Separator --- Different types of face masks can provide different levels of protection, depending on the type of mask and how they are used. You should find a face mask that best fits you. There are several things you should think about when choosing a face mask for you. This includes: your risk of illness from COVID-19 how well the face mask fits you layers and the filtration ability of the material comfort of the face mask. Whatever face mask you choose, remember any face mask is better than no face mask. --- Section Separator --- You can use a fabric face mask. The effectiveness of fabric face masks can vary depending on the style and materials used. You should look for reusable fabric face masks that have at least 3 layers and are made of tightly woven fabric, such as cotton. Ideally face masks should also use 2 different types of fabric that still allow easy breathing but provide filtration and a good fit. Face masks with more than one layer will help contain any respiratory droplets. You can increase protection of your fabric face mask by adding a ‘filter layer’ and a nose bridge wire to mould the face mask to your face. A filter layer could be a specific face mask filter or a cut-down disposable face mask to add to a face mask pocket. Fabric face masks can still be effective for short periods of time in well-ventilated areas. Taking care of your face mask is important. You should wash fabric face masks daily using soap and hot water, and completely dry them before using again. You should have enough face masks to at least wash one and wear one. Check for wear and tear to make sure there are no holes and they are still in good condition. Many stores and online retailers offer these types of face masks. You can also make your own but make sure it has at least 3 layers. How to make a face covering --- Section Separator --- Disposable face masks with ear loops can offer better protection for a longer period than fabric face masks. Especially when you are in a higher-risk indoor setting. These are the widely available ‘blue’ medical masks. They are often called ‘medical’, ‘surgical’ and ‘procedural’ masks. For use in healthcare, they must comply to a certain standard. Many surgical masks may not be certified to medical standards, but still provide effective protection. You can find these at many retail stores, supermarkets or pharmacies. Some relevant social services agencies or organisations may also be able to provide some. To make these masks fit better and get a snug fit: pinch the nose wire try layering them with a fabric mask over top knot the ear loops where they attach to the mask, then fold and tuck excess material under the edges try pulling the ear loops back and securing them with a hair tie or clip. How to wear a face mask safely Try to avoid twisting the ear loop into a figure 8, as this will likely cause a side gap that could let virus particles in. Double masking or layering can provide greater protection. The other layer, preferably a fabric mask, can help stop any leaks around the top and sides of the bottom mask. To reuse these masks, you can soak them in warm, hot or boiling water for a few minutes and hang them out to dry. You can do this up to 10 times. When they start to show wear or no longer have a good fit, dispose of them. --- Section Separator --- Disposable high-filtration face masks or particulate respirators offer the highest level of protection, when used correctly. For people who are at greater risk of severe illness from COVID-19 the use of a P2/N95 face mask may be a better choice for you. If you choose to wear this type of face mask, it is important to follow the manufacturer's instructions on how to mold these face masks to your face. You need to make sure there are no gaps and you have a tight seal against your face. These face masks can offer hours of protection when in high-risk indoor settings where there is no or little ventilation. But they need to have a very tight seal around the face to provide better protection than a well-fitting medical mask. In healthcare settings, these face masks work best when a person is ‘fit tested’ to make sure they have the right type of face mask that suits their face. You can reuse these face masks several times if you leave them for 5 to 7 days between each use. If they no longer provide a tight seal around your face, then you should dispose of them. Particulate respirator face masks come in a variety of models, prices, availability and suitability. They are often identified by which international regulatory standard they meet. P2 is the Australia/New Zealand respiratory standard. N95 is the United States respiratory standard. KN95 is the Chinese respiratory standard. FFP2 is the European respiratory standard. --- Section Separator --- Choose a face mask for children that fits them best, is comfortable to wear and can be worn consistently. The face mask should cover their nose, mouth, and chin without gaps above, below or on the sides. This can be a reusable fabric mask with 3 layers or a medical disposable mask. Many fabric masks (either purchased or made) come in child sizes. For commonly available medical masks, you can use the knot and tuck technique to improve the fit to a child's face. How to make a face mask fit tightly --- Section Separator --- These types of face masks or coverings provide very little protection against transmission of COVID-19. A face shield is not recommended to be worn instead of a face mask as it will provide very little protection against droplets or aerosol spray. Dust masks or particulate respirators that have a 1-way valve are not recommended as they can allow particles from you to spread to others. Masks that are showing wear and tear. If there is any thinning of the material, holes, or the ties or elastic loops can no longer keep the mask in place, you should replace it. Scarves, bandannas, buffs or t-shirts are no longer acceptable as face coverings. --- Section Separator --- Face masks When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Keep track of where you have been Ventilation and COVID-19
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Face masks When to wear a face mask Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. What you need to know Face masks at Orange Mask Exemption Pass Face masks at Red Face masks at Green Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- As a general rule, you should wear a face mask whenever you are in a public indoor setting or if it is hard to keep your distance from people you do not know. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors or when exercising. Everyone must wear a face mask that attaches to the face by loops around the ears or head. Wearing a face mask is unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. If you are unable to wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can get free face masks when you pick up RATs from a testing centre. You do not need to have COVID-19 symptoms. P2/N95 face masks will be available for people at higher risk of severe illness. Find a testing site with free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask in the following situations. If you are a visitor, worker, teacher or student in Years 4 to 13 indoors at schools — for example, in classrooms and assemblies. Indoors at tertiary education facilities. When visiting a licensed early childhood service. On domestic flights. On public transport — this includes Cook Strait Ferries, but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services. In taxis and ride-share services. At indoor arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport. On Cook Strait ferries. If you are aged 8 or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above on public transport and Ministry of Education-funded school transport. Indoors at food and drink businesses — for example, cafes, bars and restaurants. Inside public venues or facilities, such as museums and libraries, but does not include swimming pools. At close-proximity businesses — for example, hairdressers, barbers and beauty salons. At indoor events. At indoor gatherings, except when you have exclusive use of the venue or defined space. You can take your mask off to eat and drink. When visiting a health care service — for example, a healthcare or aged care facility (this does not include patients or residents). At a vet clinic. Inside a retail business — for example, supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations and takeaway food stores. When visiting the indoor area of a court or tribunal (unless the judicial officer does not require them). At premises operated by local and central government agencies, social service providers and NZ Police. In the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask in the following situations. On public transport — this includes Cook Strait Ferries, but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services. If you are aged 12 years or over on Ministry of Education funded school transport and public transport. In taxis or ride-share vehicles. On domestic flights. At indoor arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport. Inside public venues or facilities, such as museums and libraries. This does not include swimming pools. When visiting a health care service, for example, a healthcare or aged care facility. This does not include patients or residents. At a vet clinic. Inside a retail business — for example, supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations and takeaway food stores. When visiting the indoor area of a court or tribunal (unless the judicial officer does not require them). At premises operated by local and central government agencies, social service providers and NZ Police. In the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited. It is strongly recommended that students in Year 4 and above wear face masks in all indoor settings for the first 4 weeks of Term 3. Schools and kura get free face masks for students and staff. Face masks at schools and kura | Te Mahau (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings. You do not need to wear a face mask at work at Green. --- Section Separator --- Some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face mask. There are also some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. Find a list of exemptions — where a face mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. Who does not need to wear a face mask
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Face masks Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. In general, you should wear a face mask whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by particles, so masks are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. by children under 12 — except at Red for those aged 8 years or over or in Year 4 or above when indoors at school and on public and school transport at an indoor gathering if there is exclusive use of the venue or defined space, for example, weddings or funerals on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example, jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example, pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry when at a voting place to vote in an election. This also applies to anyone supporting or assisting you when you go to vote. you have been issued an exemption pass you are outdoors you are exercising it is unsafe, for example, if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face mask unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind or has a disability which makes it hard to have effective communication you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. We know face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. You still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can show the card to transport operators, retailers and service providers. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Mask Exemption Pass if you cannot wear a face mask — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass (external link) Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face mask. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, make sure you keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. In general, you should wear a face mask whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by particles, so masks are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. by children under 12 — except at Red for those aged 8 years or over or in Year 4 or above when indoors at school and on public and school transport at an indoor gathering if there is exclusive use of the venue or defined space, for example, weddings or funerals on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example, jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example, pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry when at a voting place to vote in an election. This also applies to anyone supporting or assisting you when you go to vote. you have been issued an exemption pass you are outdoors you are exercising it is unsafe, for example, if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face mask unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind or has a disability which makes it hard to have effective communication you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. --- Section Separator --- We know face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. You still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can show the card to transport operators, retailers and service providers. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Mask Exemption Pass if you cannot wear a face mask — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass (external link) --- Section Separator --- Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face mask. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, make sure you keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Face masks When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask When to wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Keep track of where you have been Ventilation and COVID-19
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Ventilation and COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. COVID-19 mostly spreads by aerosols — small virus particles that can stay in the air for minutes to hours. Good ventilation helps remove virus particles in the air. How COVID-19 spreads If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days. You must stay home and avoid contact with people in your household. Keep the air in your room fresh. If you can, open windows on different sides of the room to help airflow. To stop virus particles spreading, reduce airflow from your room to other parts of your home: Block gaps under your door with a towel or draught stopper. Before opening the door into shared spaces, open your window for at least 5 minutes to freshen the air. Close the window before you open the door. In a shared bathroom, switch on the extractor fan or open a window. Close the toilet lid before you flush. We encourage you to let in fresh air every day, including after someone visits your home. If you can, partly open a window about 5cm for most of the day. Or open windows for at least 15 minutes as often as possible, whenever it is practical to do so. Try 1 or more of these ways to remove stale air: Open windows or doors on opposite sides of a room to help airflow. Open doors between rooms to ventilate hallways and spaces without windows. In kitchens and bathrooms, switch on the extractor fan or open a window. Open higher windows wider than lower windows. This helps reduce draughts. If your windows do not open, check if your ventilation system filters (cleans) the air. Steamed-up windows can be a sign of low ventilation. COVID-19 and ventilation | Ministry of Health (external link) Try 1 or more of these ways to refresh air without letting rooms get chilly or damp: Partly open a window for most of the day, for example a 5cm opening. Fully open a window or door for 3 to 5 minutes every hour. Open a window whenever you leave the room, closing the door behind you. You do not have to leave windows or doors open all the time. Heat pumps, air conditioners and ceiling fans do not refresh the air. Instead, they move around air already in a room. You will need to open doors or windows to remove stale air and let in fresh air. If you have a home ventilation system, check if it recycles air or filters air: If it recycles air, you need to open windows or doors to move stale air out and let in fresh air. If it filters or cleans air, this helps remove stale air and reduce the risk of virus particles spreading. Air cleaning technologies | Ministry of Health (external link) Landlords must provide good ventilation. If you live in or own a rental property, check ventilation rules on the Tenancy Services website. Ventilation standard | Tenancy Services (external link) Virus particles can build up quickly in crowded places such as buses or trains. It helps to sit or stand close to the door as airflow will be better. Open a window on the bus or train if you can. Taxis and ride-share services often ask passengers to open windows. You must wear a face mask when travelling on public transport and in taxis and ride-share vehicles. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. COVID-19 mostly spreads by aerosols — small virus particles that can stay in the air for minutes to hours. Good ventilation helps remove virus particles in the air. How COVID-19 spreads --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days. You must stay home and avoid contact with people in your household. Keep the air in your room fresh. If you can, open windows on different sides of the room to help airflow. To stop virus particles spreading, reduce airflow from your room to other parts of your home: Block gaps under your door with a towel or draught stopper. Before opening the door into shared spaces, open your window for at least 5 minutes to freshen the air. Close the window before you open the door. In a shared bathroom, switch on the extractor fan or open a window. Close the toilet lid before you flush. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to let in fresh air every day, including after someone visits your home. If you can, partly open a window about 5cm for most of the day. Or open windows for at least 15 minutes as often as possible, whenever it is practical to do so. Try 1 or more of these ways to remove stale air: Open windows or doors on opposite sides of a room to help airflow. Open doors between rooms to ventilate hallways and spaces without windows. In kitchens and bathrooms, switch on the extractor fan or open a window. Open higher windows wider than lower windows. This helps reduce draughts. If your windows do not open, check if your ventilation system filters (cleans) the air. Steamed-up windows can be a sign of low ventilation. COVID-19 and ventilation | Ministry of Health (external link) Try 1 or more of these ways to refresh air without letting rooms get chilly or damp: Partly open a window for most of the day, for example a 5cm opening. Fully open a window or door for 3 to 5 minutes every hour. Open a window whenever you leave the room, closing the door behind you. You do not have to leave windows or doors open all the time. Heat pumps, air conditioners and ceiling fans do not refresh the air. Instead, they move around air already in a room. You will need to open doors or windows to remove stale air and let in fresh air. If you have a home ventilation system, check if it recycles air or filters air: If it recycles air, you need to open windows or doors to move stale air out and let in fresh air. If it filters or cleans air, this helps remove stale air and reduce the risk of virus particles spreading. Air cleaning technologies | Ministry of Health (external link) Landlords must provide good ventilation. If you live in or own a rental property, check ventilation rules on the Tenancy Services website. Ventilation standard | Tenancy Services (external link) --- Section Separator --- Virus particles can build up quickly in crowded places such as buses or trains. It helps to sit or stand close to the door as airflow will be better. Open a window on the bus or train if you can. Taxis and ride-share services often ask passengers to open windows. You must wear a face mask when travelling on public transport and in taxis and ride-share vehicles. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Face masks Keep track of where you have been Ventilation and COVID-19
Home Prepare and stay safe Misinformation, scams and online harm Misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and the vaccine work against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. --- Section Separator --- Aotearoa New Zealand, just like most other nations, has been flooded with misinformation since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. Misinformation is false, inaccurate or misleading information that is mistakenly or accidently created or spread. It can cause harm if people start to believe it as true. --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- I f you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it.
Home Prepare and stay safe People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if you: have compromised immunity have a high-risk medical condition are older are an infant under the age of 1 month are a child under the age of 2 who was born premature (less than 37 weeks) are a child with multiple chronic conditions. Our restrictions have eased, but we still need to keep up healthy habits to keep ourselves and our whānau safe. Our high vaccination rates mean we can slowly start to focus on returning to a normal way of life. For some people, the easing of restrictions can be stressful — especially if we have friends or whānau who are vulnerable. It is okay to feel scared or anxious as we adjust to the new settings. You can decide what additional measures suit you best. Let whānau, friends, neighbours and colleagues know what they can do to support you. If you are worried, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Get your booster if you are eligible. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition. Keep a safe distance away from people you do not live with — except for your carer or support workers. Wear a face mask whenever you leave home. If you have visitors at home, ask them to wear a face mask. Ask friends or whānau who do not live with you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT) before they visit. Stay at home if you are unwell. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms as soon as you start to feel unwell — even if the symptoms are mild. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Try to avoid large crowds — if the supermarket is busy, try again later, or use other options like click and collect. If possible, arrange to meet with friends and whānau outside. If it makes you feel more comfortable, you can ask them to wear a face mask. If you are gathering indoors, let fresh air in to reduce the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19. Even though the number of people who can gather indoors has increased, organisers still need to follow public health guidelines to keep everyone safe. You could ask the organisers for a livestream option, if you feel more comfortable participating from home. Stay connected — if you are not ready to start socialising in large groups, find other ways to keep in touch with close friends and whānau. If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. You still need to order through the Request free COVID-19 RAT kits website. Request free RATs | Ministry of Health (external link) (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) (external link) Even if you have had COVID-19, you should still get any COVID-19 vaccinations you are eligible for. We recommend you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. If you are at high risk of getting seriously ill if you do test positive for COVID-19 again, we recommend you talk to your doctor or health professional for advice on the best timing for your vaccinations. You may be able to receive your vaccination sooner. As restrictions ease, your employer may ask you to return to the workplace. We encourage you to talk to your employer about flexible working arrangements. If you have been working from home for a long time, it can take a while to adjust back to working in an office or other workplace. Let your colleagues and employer know if there is something they can do to make working easier and safer for you. If you work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working. If your child is immunocompromised, or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk to their school or kura about whether changes can be made at their school. The best way to protect your tamariki is by getting them vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination advice for 5 to 11 year olds You can support friends and whānau by: meeting outside where there is better ventilation. You may want to wear a face mask if it is difficult to keep a safe distance away isolating away from them if you test positive for COVID-19, or are unwell offering to drop off groceries or essential supplies not visiting them if you are unwell keeping in touch with them, and checking up on their physical and mental wellbeing checking if their aged residential care facility has extra measures in place for visitors being kind and showing compassion for others. Give other people space, and keep a safe distance away. There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support You can find support to access food and other essential supplies, and if you need help with accommodation. COVID-19 support Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- You are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 if you: have compromised immunity have a high-risk medical condition are older are an infant under the age of 1 month are a child under the age of 2 who was born premature (less than 37 weeks) are a child with multiple chronic conditions. --- Section Separator --- Our restrictions have eased, but we still need to keep up healthy habits to keep ourselves and our whānau safe. Our high vaccination rates mean we can slowly start to focus on returning to a normal way of life. For some people, the easing of restrictions can be stressful — especially if we have friends or whānau who are vulnerable. It is okay to feel scared or anxious as we adjust to the new settings. You can decide what additional measures suit you best. Let whānau, friends, neighbours and colleagues know what they can do to support you. If you are worried, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Get your booster if you are eligible. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition. Keep a safe distance away from people you do not live with — except for your carer or support workers. Wear a face mask whenever you leave home. If you have visitors at home, ask them to wear a face mask. Ask friends or whānau who do not live with you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT) before they visit. Stay at home if you are unwell. Get tested if you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms as soon as you start to feel unwell — even if the symptoms are mild. Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Try to avoid large crowds — if the supermarket is busy, try again later, or use other options like click and collect. If possible, arrange to meet with friends and whānau outside. If it makes you feel more comfortable, you can ask them to wear a face mask. If you are gathering indoors, let fresh air in to reduce the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19. Even though the number of people who can gather indoors has increased, organisers still need to follow public health guidelines to keep everyone safe. You could ask the organisers for a livestream option, if you feel more comfortable participating from home. Stay connected — if you are not ready to start socialising in large groups, find other ways to keep in touch with close friends and whānau. If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. You still need to order through the Request free COVID-19 RAT kits website. Request free RATs | Ministry of Health (external link) (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) (external link) Even if you have had COVID-19, you should still get any COVID-19 vaccinations you are eligible for. We recommend you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. If you are at high risk of getting seriously ill if you do test positive for COVID-19 again, we recommend you talk to your doctor or health professional for advice on the best timing for your vaccinations. You may be able to receive your vaccination sooner. --- Section Separator --- As restrictions ease, your employer may ask you to return to the workplace. We encourage you to talk to your employer about flexible working arrangements. If you have been working from home for a long time, it can take a while to adjust back to working in an office or other workplace. Let your colleagues and employer know if there is something they can do to make working easier and safer for you. If you work in an area where there is a high risk of exposure to COVID-19, such as some healthcare settings, you can discuss and agree with your employer a risk assessment and options for different ways of working. If your child is immunocompromised, or at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, talk to their school or kura about whether changes can be made at their school. The best way to protect your tamariki is by getting them vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination advice for 5 to 11 year olds --- Section Separator --- You can support friends and whānau by: meeting outside where there is better ventilation. You may want to wear a face mask if it is difficult to keep a safe distance away isolating away from them if you test positive for COVID-19, or are unwell offering to drop off groceries or essential supplies not visiting them if you are unwell keeping in touch with them, and checking up on their physical and mental wellbeing checking if their aged residential care facility has extra measures in place for visitors being kind and showing compassion for others. Give other people space, and keep a safe distance away. --- Section Separator --- There may be financial support for some people in situations where they need to stay away from work and cannot work from home. Financial support You can find support to access food and other essential supplies, and if you need help with accommodation. COVID-19 support Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Prepare and stay safe Preparing to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you or someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, all of you must isolate for at least 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket, or to pick up essential supplies, like medication. You will need to have a plan for someone outside your household to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you all need to self-isolate. Download COVID-19: Our isolation plan [PDF, 176 KB] Make a plan for how you will get food and essential supplies. You may want to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs, or you can use a food delivery service. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything dropped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. If you need support while you are self-isolating Put together a hygiene kit with things like hand sanitiser, gloves, face masks, cleaning products and extra rubbish bags. If you have people in your household who need extra support, make a plan for their care. If you have shared custody arrangements, talk to your child’s other parent or caregiver to decide what will happen. Looking after your physical and mental wellbeing is important while you are at home. Try to think of ways you can get fresh air, or do some exercise. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood — but you cannot use any shared facilities, like a public swimming pool. Keep a safe distance from others when exercising. Looking after your mental wellbeing Check that you have basic medical supplies to help manage your symptoms. This could include pain relief, a thermometer, nasal spray, lozenges and your regular medications. If you are isolating and need medicine, you can contact your doctor or local pharmacy to arrange a delivery, or ask friends and whānau to collect it for you. Make a list of whānau information — include NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medications or medical supplies each person will need. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, afterhours, and any support agencies. Talk to your employer and child’s school so you and your tamariki are set up for working and learning from home. If you cannot work from home, talk to your employer about your pay and sick leave entitlements. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) Everyone’s living situation is different — you may be in a large family, living with flatmates, or you may live alone. For some people, it will be easier to limit contact with other household members if they have access to their own bathroom and bedroom. Talk with the people you live with to make a plan for how you will manage any shared spaces. Share your plan with wider whānau and neighbours and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. How to self-isolate Make a list of activities you and your whānau can do to help pass the time. Have a plan with friends and whānau to stay connected online, so you do not have to isolate alone. Check you have enough pet food and supplies. If you are unable to look after a pet, ask someone else to care for them while you are isolating. Work out how to let people know your household is isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- If you or someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, all of you must isolate for at least 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket, or to pick up essential supplies, like medication. You will need to have a plan for someone outside your household to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you all need to self-isolate. Download COVID-19: Our isolation plan [PDF, 176 KB] --- Section Separator --- Make a plan for how you will get food and essential supplies. You may want to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs, or you can use a food delivery service. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything dropped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. If you need support while you are self-isolating Put together a hygiene kit with things like hand sanitiser, gloves, face masks, cleaning products and extra rubbish bags. If you have people in your household who need extra support, make a plan for their care. If you have shared custody arrangements, talk to your child’s other parent or caregiver to decide what will happen. Looking after your physical and mental wellbeing is important while you are at home. Try to think of ways you can get fresh air, or do some exercise. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood — but you cannot use any shared facilities, like a public swimming pool. Keep a safe distance from others when exercising. Looking after your mental wellbeing Check that you have basic medical supplies to help manage your symptoms. This could include pain relief, a thermometer, nasal spray, lozenges and your regular medications. If you are isolating and need medicine, you can contact your doctor or local pharmacy to arrange a delivery, or ask friends and whānau to collect it for you. Make a list of whānau information — include NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medications or medical supplies each person will need. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, afterhours, and any support agencies. Talk to your employer and child’s school so you and your tamariki are set up for working and learning from home. If you cannot work from home, talk to your employer about your pay and sick leave entitlements. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) Everyone’s living situation is different — you may be in a large family, living with flatmates, or you may live alone. For some people, it will be easier to limit contact with other household members if they have access to their own bathroom and bedroom. Talk with the people you live with to make a plan for how you will manage any shared spaces. Share your plan with wider whānau and neighbours and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. How to self-isolate Make a list of activities you and your whānau can do to help pass the time. Have a plan with friends and whānau to stay connected online, so you do not have to isolate alone. Check you have enough pet food and supplies. If you are unable to look after a pet, ask someone else to care for them while you are isolating. --- Section Separator --- Work out how to let people know your household is isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, what you need to do to support contact tracing if you test positive, and receiving alerts from the NZ COVID Tracer app. You are a Household Contact if you live with, and spent at least 8 hours at a residence with, someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Find out what you need to do. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate. Find out when a Household Contact can return to work under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme or as a 'bubble of 1'. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, what you need to do to support contact tracing if you test positive, and receiving alerts from the NZ COVID Tracer app. You are a Household Contact if you live with, and spent at least 8 hours at a residence with, someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Find out what you need to do. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate. Find out when a Household Contact can return to work under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme or as a 'bubble of 1'.
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Critical workers --- Section Separator --- Part of New Zealand’s response to Omicron will mean an increased use of rapid antigen tests (RATs) for critical workers. Using RATs will make sure workers are available to maintain critical infrastructure and supply chains. Critical workers are people who work for a critical service or organisation. If you are part of the critical workforce and live with someone who has COVID-19, you may be able to keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. During the Omicron response, workers at registered critical services who are identified as Household Contacts may continue to work. Who is a Household Contact Close Contacts are not eligible for the scheme, as they are not required to isolate. To qualify for an exemption as a critical worker, you must: be deemed critical by your employer work in a critical service, as listed below be fully vaccinated be asymptomatic return a negative rapid antigen test (RAT) unsupervised before each day/shift they work during your isolation period follow specific health protocols. Under the scheme, you are only allowed to go to work — you cannot go anywhere else. When you are not at work, you must self-isolate. You should talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria to be part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. How to get free RATs How to report your RAT results Critical services include: food production and its supply chain key public services such as health and emergency services lifeline utilities such as power and water supplies transport critical financial services news media social welfare human and animal health and welfare. Businesses and organisations can self-assess and sign up to the scheme on business.govt.nz: Close Contact Exemption Scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) You may also be able to keep working if you are a Household Contact if you are not customer facing and can maintain your bubble while working. This applies to any workers or sole traders, not just critical workers. To work under a 'bubble of 1', workers must: be fully vaccinated not have COVID-19 symptoms not have contact with anyone else at work. You do not need to use rapid antigen tests to return to work and businesses will not need to register for the ‘bubble of 1’. Bubble of 1 for workers who are Close Contacts | business.govt.nz (external link) There are no exemptions to wearing a face mask for workers under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme or where the 'bubble of 1' initiative is used. In these cases, workers may need to wear face masks, even if they ordinarily would not. If a worker cannot wear a face mask, they cannot return to work under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme or as a 'bubble of 1'. --- Section Separator --- Part of New Zealand’s response to Omicron will mean an increased use of rapid antigen tests (RATs) for critical workers. Using RATs will make sure workers are available to maintain critical infrastructure and supply chains. Critical workers are people who work for a critical service or organisation. If you are part of the critical workforce and live with someone who has COVID-19, you may be able to keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. --- Section Separator --- During the Omicron response, workers at registered critical services who are identified as Household Contacts may continue to work. Who is a Household Contact Close Contacts are not eligible for the scheme, as they are not required to isolate. To qualify for an exemption as a critical worker, you must: be deemed critical by your employer work in a critical service, as listed below be fully vaccinated be asymptomatic return a negative rapid antigen test (RAT) unsupervised before each day/shift they work during your isolation period follow specific health protocols. Under the scheme, you are only allowed to go to work — you cannot go anywhere else. When you are not at work, you must self-isolate. You should talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria to be part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. How to get free RATs How to report your RAT results --- Section Separator --- Critical services include: food production and its supply chain key public services such as health and emergency services lifeline utilities such as power and water supplies transport critical financial services news media social welfare human and animal health and welfare. Businesses and organisations can self-assess and sign up to the scheme on business.govt.nz: Close Contact Exemption Scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may also be able to keep working if you are a Household Contact if you are not customer facing and can maintain your bubble while working. This applies to any workers or sole traders, not just critical workers. To work under a 'bubble of 1', workers must: be fully vaccinated not have COVID-19 symptoms not have contact with anyone else at work. You do not need to use rapid antigen tests to return to work and businesses will not need to register for the ‘bubble of 1’. Bubble of 1 for workers who are Close Contacts | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are no exemptions to wearing a face mask for workers under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme or where the 'bubble of 1' initiative is used. In these cases, workers may need to wear face masks, even if they ordinarily would not. If a worker cannot wear a face mask, they cannot return to work under the Close Contact Exemption Scheme or as a 'bubble of 1'. --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have details of your Household Contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited any welfare needs you may have. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. How to upload your digital diary | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 11 77 88. It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your approximate arrival and departure time. If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. More information about NZ COVID Tracer alerts | health.govt.nz (external link) You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have details of your Household Contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited any welfare needs you may have. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. How to upload your digital diary | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 11 77 88. It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your approximate arrival and departure time. --- Section Separator --- If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. More information about NZ COVID Tracer alerts | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing How to get a COVID-19 test When you should get a test, what you need to do, and how to report your RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. --- Section Separator --- You can get free rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a range of locations, including the usual collection sites, marae and some pharmacies. Where to get a test If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test as soon as you start to feel unwell. Doing a test and reporting the result means you can get the help you need as early as possible. Check the list of COVID-19 symptoms If you live with a person who has COVID-19 or have spent at least 8 hours with them in the same home, you are a Household Contact. You must get a test on their Day 3 and Day 7 of self-isolation. Advice for Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Two types of COVID-19 tests are available to the general public in New Zealand. Rapid antigen tests (RATs): RATs are the main testing method being used for people with COVID-19 symptoms or who are a Household Contact. Results take about 20 minutes. RATs detect all COVID-19 variants. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests: PCRs are still being used in some situations. Results take between 2 and 5 days. PCR tests detect all COVID-19 variants. A health professional can advise you on the right test to take in your situation. COVID-19 test results and their accuracy | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are allowed to leave your home to get a COVID-19 test while you are self-isolating. You can order RATs for yourself or on behalf of someone else. You will need access to a mobile phone to confirm your order. You will get an order number. You can then pick up your RATs from a collection site, or have someone collect it for you. Online: Request free RATs | Ministry of Health (external link) Over the phone: 0800 222 478 , choose option 3 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week) Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | Healthpoint (external link) Your doctor may offer COVID-19 tests. Call them to find out and follow their advice. --- Section Separator --- There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs). While the instructions are similar for each, make sure to check the instructions in your kit. How to use a RAT --- Section Separator --- Whether positive or negative, you should report the results of your RAT. R eporting the result means you can get the help you need as early as possible. How to report your RAT result --- Section Separator --- After your test, you must self-isolate until you receive a negative result. You will get your results in a text message from 2328 . It will take 2 to 5 days. If you test positive, the text message will provide information about self-isolation, support options and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you have COVID-19
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing How to use a RAT --- Section Separator --- Get ready by blowing your nose and then washing and drying your hands. Lay out the contents of your RAT kit — a tube of solution, a stopper, a swab, and the test cassette. Remove the swab (it looks like a long cotton ear bud). Take the soft end and gently glide swab in 1 nostril, going low and slow, about 2 centimetres deep. Twirl the swab over the surface of the nostril around 5 times. Then repeat in your other nostril, going round again slowly 5 times. Get the tube with solution, open it, keep it upright and make sure not to spill it. Place the soft end of the swab into the solution and swirl about 5 times. You want to make sure that the swab is soaked. Pinch the swab as you are removing it — squeeze as much liquid out as you can, to keep it in the tube. Place the stopper firmly on the tube. Give the tube a shake or flick a couple of times so it gets a good mix. Then leave upright for about a minute. With the test cassette ready on a flat surface, take your tube (with the solution of your sample), and turn it upside down. Follow the kit instructions as to how many drops are needed for your test. Squeeze the drops through the stopper onto the well. Wait for 15 minutes — set a timer if that helps. Again, check with the kit instructions as the waiting time may differ. Check for results. If there is no line at the C (C for control), or there are 3 lines, then the test did not work properly this time (it is invalid — this sometimes happens). You will need to do another test. If you see a single line at the C, this shows that the test has worked and you are negative for COVID-19. If you see 2 lines (even if it is a faint line at the T) then this shows you have tested positive for COVID-19. You and your household will need to isolate for at least 7 days. Please report your results (positive or negative): online: My Covid Record (external link) by calling: 0800 222 478 (choose option 3). Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. How to report your RAT result This information is available in a printable poster. How to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) [PDF, 730 KB] The Ministry of Health has information on approved RATs and how to use them. Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get ready by blowing your nose and then washing and drying your hands. Lay out the contents of your RAT kit — a tube of solution, a stopper, a swab, and the test cassette. Remove the swab (it looks like a long cotton ear bud). --- Section Separator --- Take the soft end and gently glide swab in 1 nostril, going low and slow, about 2 centimetres deep. Twirl the swab over the surface of the nostril around 5 times. Then repeat in your other nostril, going round again slowly 5 times. --- Section Separator --- Get the tube with solution, open it, keep it upright and make sure not to spill it. Place the soft end of the swab into the solution and swirl about 5 times. You want to make sure that the swab is soaked. --- Section Separator --- Pinch the swab as you are removing it — squeeze as much liquid out as you can, to keep it in the tube. Place the stopper firmly on the tube. --- Section Separator --- Give the tube a shake or flick a couple of times so it gets a good mix. Then leave upright for about a minute. --- Section Separator --- With the test cassette ready on a flat surface, take your tube (with the solution of your sample), and turn it upside down. Follow the kit instructions as to how many drops are needed for your test. Squeeze the drops through the stopper onto the well. --- Section Separator --- Wait for 15 minutes — set a timer if that helps. Again, check with the kit instructions as the waiting time may differ. --- Section Separator --- Check for results. If there is no line at the C (C for control), or there are 3 lines, then the test did not work properly this time (it is invalid — this sometimes happens). You will need to do another test. If you see a single line at the C, this shows that the test has worked and you are negative for COVID-19. If you see 2 lines (even if it is a faint line at the T) then this shows you have tested positive for COVID-19. You and your household will need to isolate for at least 7 days. --- Section Separator --- Please report your results (positive or negative): online: My Covid Record (external link) by calling: 0800 222 478 (choose option 3). Doing a test and reporting the result in My Covid Record means you can get the help you need as early as possible. How to report your RAT result --- Section Separator --- This information is available in a printable poster. How to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) [PDF, 730 KB] The Ministry of Health has information on approved RATs and how to use them. Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to get a COVID-19 test How to use a RAT Report your RAT results What happens if you test positive for COVID-19
Home Traffic lights The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. What you need to know Hospitality at Orange Shopping at Orange Gatherings at Orange Events at Orange Public facilities at Orange Playing sport at Orange Businesses and workplaces at Orange Travel at Orange Education at Orange --- Section Separator --- Find out what you need to do: Life at Orange Face masks at Orange --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Traffic lights Access to basic needs At all traffic light settings, everyone can access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport, education, and emergency shelter. You do not need to show proof of vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Basics needs are shops and services available to everyone at all traffic light settings and without proof of vaccination. Basic needs include: supermarkets dairies food banks pharmacies petrol stations aged residential care services if you are a resident emergency accommodation for people in need public housing and social housing public transport — buses, trains, taxis and ride-share services. Basic needs also include essential health and disability services, such as: ambulances and emergency care GPs and other primary care services hospitals hospice services laboratories and imaging services maternity care mental health care services oral healthcare services such as dentists specialist clinics. --- Section Separator --- Children, students, their parents or caregivers will not be asked for proof of vaccination to attend, visit or use: early childhood education and care centres schools school transport after-school care and recreation programmes school teams and other activities. --- Section Separator --- You should wear a face mask on public transport and many indoor public spaces. When to wear a face mask Some places do not require face masks. For some people, wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find out where you do not need to wear a face mask, who does not need to wear one, and how to get a Mask Exemption Pass: Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. Retail businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Health providers can find more detailed information on the Ministry of Health website. Aged care providers can find more detailed information on the Ministry of Health website. Social service providers can find more information on the Ministry of Social Development website. --- Section Separator --- Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. Retail businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Health providers can find more detailed information on the Ministry of Health website. Aged care providers can find more detailed information on the Ministry of Health website. Social service providers can find more information on the Ministry of Social Development website.
Home Traffic lights History of the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) --- Section Separator --- Find out what you need to do: Life at Orange Face masks at Orange The framework replaced Alert Levels in December 2021. It has 3 traffic light settings of Red, Orange and Green. The framework aims to: help people protect one another from the virus keep hospitalisation rates as low as possible and avoid overwhelming the health system minimise the impact of large outbreaks reduce the need for lockdowns. It also aims to give people and businesses more stability. At all traffic light settings, essential services will continue to operate. This includes supermarkets, health services, emergency services, goods transport, and utilities such as power and water supplies. A high vaccination rate is a key tool to protect people and minimise the spread of COVID-19. Getting vaccinated means you are less likely to get extremely sick or infect other people. Some workplaces may require staff to be vaccinated. Vaccine mandates for many government workers ended during 2022. Wearing face masks is a way we can protect ourselves and others. At Red and Orange traffic light settings, there are some places you must wear a mask, such as on public transport and in supermarkets. At Red, capacity limits apply in some indoor settings. Limits are based on 1-metre distancing, which means 1 metre square of space for each person, up to the maximum capacity limit. It does not mean everyone must stay 1 metre apart. Capacity limits do not include workers (paid and unpaid). If an area has very high infection rates, extra restrictions such as local lockdowns or other protective steps may be used. Examples of protective steps include: stay at home orders closing premises, such as schools or shops limiting numbers allowed at gatherings. COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] The COVID-19 Alert Level System ends. History of the Alert System At 11:59pm New Zealand moves to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, or traffic light system. Northland, Auckland, Taupo, Rotorua Lakes, Kawerau, Whakatane, Ōpōtiki, Gisborne, Wairoa, Rangitikei, Whanganui, and Ruapehu districts move to Red. The rest of the North Island, and the South Island, move to Orange. Watch 1 December media conference Auckland boundary lifts at 11:59pm. People travelling out of Auckland need to be vaccinated or have proof of a negative test. First confirmed Omicron border case. The international traveller tests positive soon after arriving on 10 December. Genome sequencing then detects Omicron. Watch 16 December media conference Auckland, Taupo, Rotorua Lakes, Kawerau, Whakatane, Ōpōtiki, Gisborne, Wairoa, Rangitikei, Whanganui, and Ruapehu districts move to Orange at 11:59pm. Northland remains at Red. Auckland boundary-crossing rules end. People travelling out of Auckland no longer need proof of vaccination or a negative test. Northland moves to Orange at 11:59pm. First confirmed Omicron community cases. All New Zealand moves to Red at 11:59pm. Watch 23 January media conference The Government introduces Omicron phases, with different approaches to testing and isolation as case numbers grow. Phase 1: Focus on stamping out small outbreaks, with PCR testing and 14-day isolation period for COVID-19 cases. Phase 2: Focus on slowing the spread and protecting those most at risk of getting seriously ill. Contact tracing switches to online self-assessments, isolation period drops to 10 days. Phase 3: Focus on safely managing COVID-19 at home, with self-testing kits of rapid antigen tests (RATs) and isolation only for people who test positive and their Household Contacts. Government announces 3-phase public health response to Omicron Our response to Omicron Face mask rules change for Red at 11:59pm. Increased mask use to prepare for Omicron Close Contact exemption scheme begins for workers in key sectors. All New Zealand moves to Phase 2 of the Omicron response at 11:59pm. Watch 16 February media conference All New Zealand moves to Phase 3 of the Omicron response at 11:59pm. Watch 24 February media conference Isolation period drops from 10 to 7 days at 11:59pm. Changes to traffic light settings at 11:59pm include: Indoor gathering limits at Red increase from 100 to 200 people. No more limits on numbers at outdoor gatherings in any traffic light setting. Contact tracing and record-keeping requirements end for businesses and other organisations. Vaccine passes are no longer needed in any traffic setting from 11:59pm. Most vaccine mandates end for government workers. All New Zealand remains at Red. Watch 4 April media conference All New Zealand moves to Orange at 11:59pm. Watch 13 April media conference Vaccine mandates end for border and corrections workers. Vaccine mandates end for some workers in the Defence Force, Fire and Emergency, and Police. --- Section Separator --- Find out what you need to do: Life at Orange Face masks at Orange --- Section Separator --- The framework replaced Alert Levels in December 2021. It has 3 traffic light settings of Red, Orange and Green. The framework aims to: help people protect one another from the virus keep hospitalisation rates as low as possible and avoid overwhelming the health system minimise the impact of large outbreaks reduce the need for lockdowns. It also aims to give people and businesses more stability. At all traffic light settings, essential services will continue to operate. This includes supermarkets, health services, emergency services, goods transport, and utilities such as power and water supplies. --- Section Separator --- A high vaccination rate is a key tool to protect people and minimise the spread of COVID-19. Getting vaccinated means you are less likely to get extremely sick or infect other people. Some workplaces may require staff to be vaccinated. Vaccine mandates for many government workers ended during 2022. Wearing face masks is a way we can protect ourselves and others. At Red and Orange traffic light settings, there are some places you must wear a mask, such as on public transport and in supermarkets. At Red, capacity limits apply in some indoor settings. Limits are based on 1-metre distancing, which means 1 metre square of space for each person, up to the maximum capacity limit. It does not mean everyone must stay 1 metre apart. Capacity limits do not include workers (paid and unpaid). If an area has very high infection rates, extra restrictions such as local lockdowns or other protective steps may be used. Examples of protective steps include: stay at home orders closing premises, such as schools or shops limiting numbers allowed at gatherings. COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Alert Level System ends. History of the Alert System At 11:59pm New Zealand moves to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, or traffic light system. Northland, Auckland, Taupo, Rotorua Lakes, Kawerau, Whakatane, Ōpōtiki, Gisborne, Wairoa, Rangitikei, Whanganui, and Ruapehu districts move to Red. The rest of the North Island, and the South Island, move to Orange. Watch 1 December media conference Auckland boundary lifts at 11:59pm. People travelling out of Auckland need to be vaccinated or have proof of a negative test. First confirmed Omicron border case. The international traveller tests positive soon after arriving on 10 December. Genome sequencing then detects Omicron. Watch 16 December media conference Auckland, Taupo, Rotorua Lakes, Kawerau, Whakatane, Ōpōtiki, Gisborne, Wairoa, Rangitikei, Whanganui, and Ruapehu districts move to Orange at 11:59pm. Northland remains at Red. Auckland boundary-crossing rules end. People travelling out of Auckland no longer need proof of vaccination or a negative test. Northland moves to Orange at 11:59pm. First confirmed Omicron community cases. All New Zealand moves to Red at 11:59pm. Watch 23 January media conference The Government introduces Omicron phases, with different approaches to testing and isolation as case numbers grow. Phase 1: Focus on stamping out small outbreaks, with PCR testing and 14-day isolation period for COVID-19 cases. Phase 2: Focus on slowing the spread and protecting those most at risk of getting seriously ill. Contact tracing switches to online self-assessments, isolation period drops to 10 days. Phase 3: Focus on safely managing COVID-19 at home, with self-testing kits of rapid antigen tests (RATs) and isolation only for people who test positive and their Household Contacts. Government announces 3-phase public health response to Omicron Our response to Omicron Face mask rules change for Red at 11:59pm. Increased mask use to prepare for Omicron Close Contact exemption scheme begins for workers in key sectors. All New Zealand moves to Phase 2 of the Omicron response at 11:59pm. Watch 16 February media conference All New Zealand moves to Phase 3 of the Omicron response at 11:59pm. Watch 24 February media conference Isolation period drops from 10 to 7 days at 11:59pm. Changes to traffic light settings at 11:59pm include: Indoor gathering limits at Red increase from 100 to 200 people. No more limits on numbers at outdoor gatherings in any traffic light setting. Contact tracing and record-keeping requirements end for businesses and other organisations. Vaccine passes are no longer needed in any traffic setting from 11:59pm. Most vaccine mandates end for government workers. All New Zealand remains at Red. Watch 4 April media conference All New Zealand moves to Orange at 11:59pm. Watch 13 April media conference Vaccine mandates end for border and corrections workers. Vaccine mandates end for some workers in the Defence Force, Fire and Emergency, and Police. --- Section Separator --- Traffic lights map Life at Red Access to basic needs Life at Orange Life at Green History of the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- All New Zealand is at Orange. If we move to Green: No restrictions. No requirements to scan in or for businesses to display QR code posters or have mandatory record keeping. --- Section Separator --- Face masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. They are useful in poorly ventilated indoor areas and when you are around people you do not know. Stay home if you are sick, and take a rapid antigen test (RAT) if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser. Cough or sneeze into your elbow. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces regularly. Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. If air conditioning is used, make sure the system is regularly maintained. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Keep track of where you have been. Stay up to date with your vaccinations. Learn more about healthy habits --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange At Orange, COVID-19 is in the community, with increasing risks to vulnerable people and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. What to do at Orange: Gatherings Hospitality Businesses and workplaces Events Education Shopping and services Travel and accommodation Public facilities Sport and recreation --- Section Separator --- All New Zealand is at Orange . You can do everyday activities, but we need to protect our vulnerable communities. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. You can visit cafes and bars, attend gatherings and events, and go to gyms and hairdressers — with no capacity limits or distancing requirements. Workplaces and schools can open. Keep up healthy habits to protect yourself, your whānau and your community. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings can go ahead, including weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation. This information is for domestic travel. Businesses and workplaces can open. Some workers may need to be vaccinated and some must wear a face mask. Venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs can open. Some workers must wear face masks. Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open. Tradespeople and home services can visit your home. Schools, kura, early childhood services and tertiary education can open. You may have to wear a face mask. Events such as concerts and sports matches can go ahead. Facilities such as courts, libraries and zoos can open. You may have to wear a face mask. You can move to a new home, and buy, sell or rent a property. You can play sports and attend sporting events. Recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings can go ahead, including weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation. This information is for domestic travel. Businesses and workplaces can open. Some workers may need to be vaccinated and some must wear a face mask. Venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs can open. Some workers must wear face masks. Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open. Tradespeople and home services can visit your home. Schools, kura, early childhood services and tertiary education can open. You may have to wear a face mask. Events such as concerts and sports matches can go ahead. Facilities such as courts, libraries and zoos can open. You may have to wear a face mask. You can move to a new home, and buy, sell or rent a property. You can play sports and attend sporting events. Recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open. Some workers may need to be vaccinated and some must wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- If you are a business owner or manager, think about what steps you can take to protect your workers and customers if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan for your business. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Some people must wear a face mask when they are working with members of the public, customers or clients while they are at work — unless they are exempt. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has advice about the requirements for face masks in different sectors: Face mask requirement for workers and customers | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Workplaces are open at Orange. Employees should talk to their employers about working at Orange or read more at employment.govt.nz: Working at Orange | employment.govt.nz (external link) There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Requiring My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate need to be fully vaccinated. Vaccination and work --- Section Separator --- If you are a visitor or customer at a business that has chosen to check My Vaccine Passes, you will need to show them your pass. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass by looking at it, or scanning the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Children under 12 years and 3 months can enter businesses without a My Vaccine Pass. Get your My Vaccine Pass Shopping and services at Orange Hospitality at Orange --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find advice on operating safely under each of the traffic light settings at business.govt.nz. COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Businesses can choose whether to require customers to have My Vaccine Passes as a condition of entry. If businesses choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements, they must sight or verify customers' passes. Businesses can use the free NZ Pass Verifier app to check passes quickly and easily. More information on NZ Pass Verifier | Ministry of Health (external link) Use our COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what support may be available for you and your employees. COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for businesses | business.govt.nz (external link) Staff at registered critical services who are Household Contacts may continue to work. They must be fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. Critical workers --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Display posters to let everyone know what requirements are in place at your business. Businesses can find more detailed information about the framework on business.govt.nz. There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has COVID-19 information. Social service providers can find more information about COVID-19 from the Ministry of Social Development. --- Section Separator --- Display posters to let everyone know what requirements are in place at your business. Businesses can find more detailed information about the framework on business.govt.nz. There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has COVID-19 information. Social service providers can find more information about COVID-19 from the Ministry of Social Development.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Education Schools, kura, early childhood services and tertiary education can open, but you may have to wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- We strongly recommend students in Years 4 and above wear face masks in all indoor settings for the first 4 weeks of Term 3. Schools and kura get free face masks for students and staff. Face masks at schools and kura | Te Mahau (external link) --- Section Separator --- All playgroups, early learning centres, schools and kura, and tertiary institutions can open. You are encouraged to wear a face mask indoors. All ākonga (students) aged 12 years or over must wear face masks on public and school transport. --- Section Separator --- This includes: certified playgroups all licensed early learning services and kōhanga reo schools and kura tertiary institutions. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials and meetings in person. My Vaccine Pass is not required, but tertiary providers may have their own requirements. Check with your provider. If you do not meet their vaccine requirements, talk to them about alternative learning options. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face masks on-site at education services. You do not need to wear a face mask when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We encourage you to wear a face mask indoors wherever it is practical. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Face masks are encouraged when inside at school. For Term 3, we strongly recommend that students in Years 4 and above wear face masks in all indoor settings for the first 4 weeks (where it will not have a significant impact on teaching and learning). All ākonga (students) aged 12 and over must wear face masks on school transport. Face masks at schools and kura | Te Mahau (external link) --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, staff will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. Only people with COVID-19 and their Household Contacts need to self-isolate. If your child has been near someone with COVID-19 who is not in their household: they do not need to stay home from school or kura, and they do not need to get a test, unless they get symptoms. If your child or someone in their household gets COVID-19, you should tell their school or kura. Everyone in the household must self-isolate. What happens if you test positive Household Contacts Check with your school or kura about how they will manage COVID-19 cases. Public health toolkits from Te Mahau, the Ministry of Education: Early learning connected to confirmed cases | Ministry of Education (external link) Schools connected to confirmed cases | Ministry of Education (external link) --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Managers and staff can find detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Managers and staff can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. Managers, staff and students can find detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. --- Section Separator --- Managers and staff can find detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Managers and staff can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. Managers, staff and students can find detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Events Events such as concerts and sports matches can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- Events can go ahead. There are no limits on how many people can attend. You do not need to wear a face mask at an event, either indoors or outdoors. --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Orange. Examples of events and venues include: auctions cinemas concert venues conferences commercial recreational activities private galleries sporting events stadiums. You do not need to wear a face mask at an event, either indoors or outdoors. Workers and volunteers at indoor events must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration must follow the rules for gatherings. Gatherings at Orange --- Section Separator --- There are no limits on the number of people who can attend an event. This applies indoors and outdoors. --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers and staff can find more information on business.govt.nz. Events and gatherings guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings Gatherings can go ahead, including weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. --- Section Separator --- There are no capacity limits for indoor or outdoor gatherings. You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering, but it is encouraged. Workers and volunteers at gatherings must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. --- Section Separator --- There are no limits on the number of people who can attend an indoor or outdoor gathering. Events have different rules to gatherings. Events control access by using tickets, registration, a fee or another way of controlling entry. For example, a ticketed concert held at a place of worship is an event. Events at Orange --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering. People at the gathering do not need to sit down to eat or drink. If you have exclusive use of the venue, then you can follow the gathering rules. If you do not have exclusive use of the venue, and you are mixing with members of the public, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow hospitality advice. Hospitality at Orange --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask when attending a gathering, but it is encouraged. Workers and volunteers at gatherings must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. Performers and formal speakers do not need to wear a face mask when performing or speaking. At indoor gatherings, they are encouraged to wear face masks when not performing or speaking. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Orange. Businesses can find more detailed information about gatherings on business.govt.nz. Funeral directors, and religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on the Ministry of Health website. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Orange. Businesses can find more detailed information about gatherings on business.govt.nz. Funeral directors, and religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on the Ministry of Health website.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Hospitality venues Venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs can open. Some workers must wear face masks. --- Section Separator --- There are no capacity limits at hospitality venues. Customers do not need to wear face masks at indoor or outdoor hospitality venues, but it is encouraged. Public-facing workers at indoor hospitality venues must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. There are no limits on the number of people who can be at the venue — either indoors or outdoors. You do not have to be seated to be served. Food and drink services that only offer takeaways, like coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail: Shopping and services at Orange --- Section Separator --- Customers do not need to wear face masks, but it is encouraged at indoor hospitality venues. Public-facing workers at indoor hospitality venues must wear a medical-grade face mask — unless they are exempt. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Businesses can find more information about the framework on business.govt.nz. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Businesses can find more information about the framework on business.govt.nz.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Moving, buying and selling your home You can move to a new home, and buy, sell or rent a property. --- Section Separator --- There is no limit to how many people can attend open homes and property viewings. --- Section Separator --- You can move house at Orange. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at all traffic light settings for any reason, including to move house. Travel and accommodation at Orange --- Section Separator --- You can buy or sell your home at Orange. You can hold and attend open homes. You can carry out property inspections. There is no limit to how many people can attend open homes and property inspections. Advice for landlords and tenants | Tenancy Services (external link) Guidelines for real estate activities at Orange | Real Estate Authority (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask when moving, buying or selling your home. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies and moving companies can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Real estate agencies can find advice for holding open homes and auctions on the Real Estate Authority website. Landlords and tenants can find more detailed advice on the Tenancy Services website. --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies and moving companies can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Real estate agencies can find advice for holding open homes and auctions on the Real Estate Authority website. Landlords and tenants can find more detailed advice on the Tenancy Services website.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Public facilities Facilities such as courts, libraries and zoos can open with some restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can open. There are no capacity limits . You must wear a face mask indoors at public facilities, except at swimming pools. --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can open at Orange. Examples of public facilities include: courts and police stations libraries pools and recreation centres public galleries and museums zoos. Some public facilities may choose to operate with vaccination requirements. If they do, you will need to show My Vaccine Pass. Check before you go. --- Section Separator --- At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors or at a swimming pool. You must wear a face mask in: public venues such as libraries and museums courts or tribunals — unless the judicial officer does not require face masks premises operated by local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police public premises operated by NZ Post. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: Face masks at Orange --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Managers and staff can find more information at business.govt.nz. Find updates on the Department of Internal Affairs website. --- Section Separator --- Managers and staff can find more information at business.govt.nz. Find updates on the Department of Internal Affairs website.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Shopping and services Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Orange with some restrictions. Tradespeople and home services can visit your home. --- Section Separator --- Shops and close-proximity businesses, such as barbers, can open. You must wear a face mask at many indoor businesses. There are no capacity limits . Tradespeople and home services, such as cleaners, can come to your home. --- Section Separator --- Shops, including outdoor markets, banks, food courts and takeaway-only businesses, can open at Orange. Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter the shop. --- Section Separator --- You can visit a close-proximity business at Orange. There is no limit to how many people can be present. Examples of a close-proximity business include: barbers hairdressers beauty salons driving instructors massage therapists. --- Section Separator --- You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Examples of trades and home services are: getting home appliances fixed, like your fridge utility services, like gas and power cleaning for people who need assistance because of sickness or disability gardening services getting internet or other services installed or fixed locksmiths vet and pest management services. While they are inside your house it is recommended you: keep 1 metre apart from them, and wear a face mask. Tradespeople do not need to wear a face mask when inside your home, but it is encouraged. Do not invite tradespeople or home service providers into your home if you are isolating or are unwell — unless it is an emergency or you have a support carer. If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You can remove your face mask to eat or drink. You must wear a face mask: inside retail businesses, for example, supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies and petrol stations in takeaway food stores at a vet clinic. Workers at retail and close-proximity businesses must wear a face mask. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more information at business.govt.nz. Close-proximity businesses can find more information at business.govt.nz. Trades and services can find more information on business.govt.nz. --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more information at business.govt.nz. Close-proximity businesses can find more information at business.govt.nz. Trades and services can find more information on business.govt.nz.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Sport and recreation You can play sports and attend sporting events. Indoor recreation facilities can open, and outdoor recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor sport events can go ahead at Orange. This includes community and professional sport. Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities can open. This includes gyms, dance studios, ice skating rinks, playgrounds and outdoor exercise classes. There are no capacity limits indoors or outdoors. --- Section Separator --- If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Orange --- Section Separator --- If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Orange --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors, at a sporting or recreation event, when you are exercising, or playing sport. When face masks do not need to be worn At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find detailed information on business.govt.nz. Sports clubs can find detailed information on Sport New Zealand's website. Recreation businesses can find detailed information on business.govt.nz. Display posters to let everyone know what COVID-19 requirements are in place. --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find detailed information on business.govt.nz. Sports clubs can find detailed information on Sport New Zealand's website. Recreation businesses can find detailed information on business.govt.nz. Display posters to let everyone know what COVID-19 requirements are in place.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Travel and accommodation You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation. This information is for domestic travel. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason. Accommodation can open, with no capacity limits . You must wear a face mask on all flights and public transport, in taxis and ride-share services. Do not travel if you are unwell or isolating. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason at Orange. There are no regional boundaries. If you are travelling into different setting areas, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. Unless your transport provider requires it, you do not need a My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test to travel. You can take public transport, taxis and ride-shares. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, or at bus stops or train stations. If you are self-isolating, you can only leave your home for a few reasons. Do not travel if you are unwell or isolating. If you have COVID-19 What to do if you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Accommodation can open at Orange. There are no capacity limits. This includes: hotels and motels boarding houses backpackers campgrounds and cabins seasonal worker accommodation AirBnB properties tertiary accommodation. It does not include private residences. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the accommodation facility. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an accommodation facility, follow the relevant advice: Events at Orange Gatherings at Orange Accommodation services can provide food and drink. Customer-facing food and beverage services inside accommodation facilities, other than room service, must follow the advice for hospitality venues. Hospitality at Orange --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport in taxis and ride-share services on Cook Strait ferries at indoor arrival and departure points, for example inside airports and terminals on all Kiwirail services — but you can take your face mask off when you are in your seat inside your allocated carriage. You do not need to wear a face mask at accommodation facilities, but you are encouraged to wear one in public indoor settings. When you must wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 while you are away from home, you and the people you are travelling with will need to isolate. You can only return home if you have a private vehicle, and you do not need to use public transport — such as a ferry — to get home. Make sure you have a plan in case this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Transport providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Find COVID-19 information for transport and travel operators on the Ministry of Transport's website. --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Transport providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Find COVID-19 information for transport and travel operators on the Ministry of Transport's website.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Visiting friends and whānau You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Examples include: catching up with friends and whānau at their home or your home parties and other gatherings at their home or your home. Follow the advice for gatherings: Gatherings at Orange --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care facility or rest home before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting. Do not visit if you are: unwell or have COVID-19-like symptoms isolating waiting for a COVID-19 test result. Guidance for aged care providers | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep workers and patients safe. Examples include limiting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Do not visit if you are: unwell or have COVID-19-like symptoms isolating waiting for a COVID-19 test result. Guidance for health professionals | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some prisons allow face-to-face visits for private and legal visitors. Other prisons offer video calls but not in-person visits. You do not need to be vaccinated to visit someone in prison. But you are encouraged to: be vaccinated and boosted take a rapid antigen test (RAT) and get a negative result. Check which prisons allow visits on the Corrections website. Prison visit updates | Corrections NZ (external link) (external link)C --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. What to do at Red: Gatherings and visits Hospitality Shopping and services, like hairdressers Travel and accommodation Sports and recreation Events Education Public facilities Access to basic needs --- Section Separator --- All New Zealand is at Orange . If we move to Red: Red is not a lockdown, but restrictions will slow the spread of COVID-19. You can always access basic needs , such as food and healthcare. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand, and visit friends and whānau. You must wear a face mask in most indoor locations. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You can go to cafes and bars, attend gatherings and events, and go to gyms and hairdressers. Some venues have capacity limits and distancing requirements. Workplaces and schools can open. Keep physically distanced wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with some requirements and restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. This information is for domestic travel. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated and some must wear a face mask. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red. Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Red with some protections. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Red. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can attend sports events and play sports at Red. Recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with some requirements and restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. This information is for domestic travel. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated and some must wear a face mask. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red. Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Red with some protections. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Red. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can attend sports events and play sports at Red. Recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated and some must wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. To slow the spread of the disease, we encourage those who can, to work from home. If you are a worker, talk to your employer or read more at employment.govt.nz Working at Red | Employment New Zealand (external link) How to run your business at Red | business.govt.nz (external link) Some critical workers may be able to return to work if they are a Household Contact, are fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. Find out more about the close contact exemption scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are a business owner or manager, think about what steps you can take to protect your workers and customers if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan for your business. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Some people must wear a face mask when they are working with members of the public, customers or clients while they are at work — unless they are exempt. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has advice about the requirements for face masks in different sectors: Face mask requirement for workers and customers | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Workplaces can open at Red. To slow the spread of the disease, we also encourage those who can, to work from home. Working from home is not practical for everyone, but if it is a practical option for you, we are encouraging you to do so. If you are a worker, you can talk to your employer or read more at employment.govt.nz: Working at Red | Employment New Zealand (external link) There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Requiring My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate must be vaccinated. Vaccination and work --- Section Separator --- If you are a visitor or customer at a business that has chosen to check My Vaccine Passes, you will need to show them your pass. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass by looking at it, or scanning the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Children under 12 years and 3 months can enter businesses without a My Vaccine Pass. Get your My Vaccine Pass Shopping and services at Red Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find advice on operating safely under each of the traffic light settings at business.govt.nz. COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Businesses can choose whether to require customers to have My Vaccine Passes as a condition of entry. If businesses choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements, they must sight or verify customers' passes. Businesses can use the free NZ Pass Verifier app to check passes quickly and easily. More information on NZ Pass Verifier | Ministry of Health (external link) Use our COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what support may be available for you and your employees. COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for businesses | business.govt.nz (external link) Staff at registered critical services who are Household Contacts may continue to work. They must be fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. Critical workers --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Display posters to let everyone know what requirements are in place at your business. Businesses can find more detailed information about the framework on business.govt.nz. There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has COVID-19 information. Social service providers can find more information about COVID-19 from the Ministry of Social Development. --- Section Separator --- Display posters to let everyone know what requirements are in place at your business. Businesses can find more detailed information about the framework on business.govt.nz. There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has COVID-19 information. Social service providers can find more information about COVID-19 from the Ministry of Social Development.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Education Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. --- Section Separator --- All playgroups, early learning centres, schools and kura can open . Children and teachers in Year 4 and up must wear a face mask indoors. Staff, parents/caregivers and visitors to education services must wear a face mask indoors. Tertiary institutions can open, and students can attend in person. Staff, students and visitors must wear a face mask indoors in public areas at tertiary education facilities, and indoors during teaching and learning activities. --- Section Separator --- This includes: certified playgroups all licensed early learning services and kōhanga reo schools and kura tertiary institutions. All parents/caregivers and other visitors to early learning, schools and kura are encouraged to maintain 1-metre distancing from other adults while indoors, for example, to settle your child or to view a service. Parents/caregivers who can supervise their children at home are encouraged to do so. This does not prevent parent-led services from opening. If required, services will be able to make choices about their capacity to manage attendance. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials and meetings in person when tertiary sites are open. My Vaccine Pass is not required, but tertiary providers may have their own requirements. Check with your provider. If you do not meet their vaccine requirements, talk to them about alternative learning options. Capacity is based on 1-metre distancing. You do not need to physically distance at a tertiary education facility. However, tertiary providers may impose their own distancing requirements. --- Section Separator --- All parents/caregivers and visitors to education services must wear a face mask indoors. Find a full list of when you need to wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Types of face masks Staff and volunteers must wear medical-grade face masks when indoors. Children do not need to wear a face mask. Staff and volunteers do not have to wear a face mask, but they can if they want to. Children do not need to wear a face mask when attending early learning services or on early learning service transport. This includes buses or vans chartered or used by early learning services to carry children, students and staff. All ākonga (students) aged 8 years or over, or in Year 4 or up, must wear face masks at schools and kura when: indoors on public transport at all times on school transport. Staff and teachers must wear medical-grade face masks when teaching and supporting children in Years 4 and up. Face mask guidance | Ministry of Education (external link) Staff, students and visitors must wear a face mask indoors in public areas at tertiary education facilities, and indoors during teaching and learning activities. Face masks must also be worn indoors when accessing services such as student health, pharmacies and other retailers on-site. --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, staff will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. Only people with COVID-19 and their Household Contacts need to self-isolate. If your child has been near someone with COVID-19 who is not in their household: they do not need to stay home from school or kura, and they do not need to get a test, unless they get symptoms. If your child or someone in their household gets COVID-19, you should tell their school or kura. Everyone in the household must self-isolate. What happens if you test positive Household Contacts Check with your school or kura about how they will manage COVID-19 cases. Public health toolkits from Te Mahau, the Ministry of Education: Early learning connected to confirmed cases | Ministry of Education (external link) Schools connected to confirmed cases | Ministry of Education (external link) --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Managers and staff can find detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Managers and staff can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. Managers, staff and students can find detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. --- Section Separator --- Managers and staff can find detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education. Managers and staff can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. Managers, staff and students can find detailed information from Te Mahau, part of the Ministry of Education.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Red. --- Section Separator --- Events can go ahead. Indoor events are limited to 200 people . There are no capacity limits outdoors. Children and babies are included in the event limits — but not people working at a gathering. When food and drink is being served, you must be seated and separated. Public facilities can open with capacity limits. --- Section Separator --- Events such as concerts and sports matches can go ahead at Red. Public facilities such as courts, libraries and zoos can open at Red with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Events such as concerts and sports matches can go ahead at Red. Public facilities such as courts, libraries and zoos can open at Red with restrictions.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Events Events such as concerts and sports matches can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- Indoor events are limited to 200 people . Outdoor events have no capacity limits. Children and babies are included in the capacity limits — but not people working at events. You must wear a face mask at indoor events. When food and drink is being served, you must be seated and separated . --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Red. Examples of events and venues include: auctions cinemas commercial recreation activities concert venues conferences private galleries sporting events stadiums. There can be up to 200 people in a defined space at the venue at any time, based on 1-metre physical distancing. This includes children, but not workers. Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- Generally, when food and drink is being served, you must remain seated and separated . You can move around when you are not being served or eating. In cinemas, theatres and stadiums, you can buy food and drink from the counter, but you must be seated when you consume it. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at an indoor event. At outdoor events you do not need to wear a face mask. Event workers and volunteers must wear a face mask at indoor events. They do not need to wear face masks at outdoor events. Performers and entertainers do not need to wear a face mask when performing and if they can keep 2 metre physical distance from the audience at all times. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: Face masks at Red --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers and staff can find more information on business.govt.nz. What these are, and how to apply rules on masks and capacity limits. --- Section Separator --- Event organisers and staff can find more information on business.govt.nz. What these are, and how to apply rules on masks and capacity limits.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Public facilities Public facilities like courts, libraries and zoos can open with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can open with capacity limits. Face masks must be worn indoors, but not at swimming pools. Maintain 1-metre physical distancing from others wherever possible. --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can open, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing . Examples of public facilities include: courts and police stations libraries pools and recreation centres public galleries and museums zoos. Some public facilities may choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show My Vaccine Pass at the facilities. Check before you go. Face masks must be worn at indoor public facilities. Maintain 1-metre physical distancing from others wherever possible. Public facilities can open, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing . Public facilities are responsible for working out the capacity limits of each facility, based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. --- Section Separator --- At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave your house, wherever it is practical. You must wear a face mask: public venues such as libraries and museums courts or tribunals — unless the judicial officer does not require face masks premises operated by local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police public premises operated by NZ Post. You do not need to wear a face mask at swimming pools or outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Managers and staff can find more information at business.govt.nz. Find updates on the Department of Internal Affairs website. --- Section Separator --- Managers and staff can find more information at business.govt.nz. Find updates on the Department of Internal Affairs website.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Faith-based gatherings You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. --- Section Separator --- Faith-based gatherings can go ahead. Indoor faith-based gatherings are limited to 200 people. Outdoor faith-based gatherings have no limit . Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not people working (including volunteers) at a gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask if your gathering is outside, or when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. --- Section Separator --- A gathering is a group of people who are intermingling. Most faith-based services are gatherings. Examples of faith-based gatherings that can go ahead at Red include: services at places of worship prayer group at home weddings funerals and tangihanga. Weddings at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Marae at Red Events have different rules to gatherings. Events control access by using tickets, registration, a fee or another way of controlling entry. For example, a ticketed concert held at a place of worship is an event. Events at Red Encourage contactless donations instead of a cash collection box. Consider offering online services so people who cannot attend in person can participate. Clean and sanitise musical instruments thoroughly before and after use. --- Section Separator --- Guidelines for places of worship [PDF, 246 KB] --- Section Separator --- Indoor faith-based gatherings are limited to 200 people. Outdoor faith-based gatherings have no limit. Workers (paid or unpaid) at a gathering — for example, the person leading the service and musicians — are not included in the gathering limits. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits. At all gatherings, you do not need to physically distance. This means you can move around, mingle with others and dance. --- Section Separator --- Face mask requirements for people at the gathering who are not working will depend on where and how the gathering is held: You must wear a face mask at an indoor gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoors gathering, or when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with gathering attendees. Where face masks are required, you can remove them to eat and drink. Face masks must not be removed while singing. If 2 metres away from others, performers and workers presenting to an audience can remove their face masks. All workers (paid or unpaid) at faith-based gatherings must wear a face mask throughout the gathering. When to wear a face mask Face mask exemptions Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your faith-based gathering, but people should not share drinks, cups, plates, cutlery or other items. People do not need to sit down to eat or drink, unless your gathering is at a hospitality venue. If you have exclusive use of the venue, then you can follow the gathering rules. If you do not have exclusive use of the venue, and you are mixing with members of the public, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow hospitality advice. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. --- Section Separator --- Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Red. There can be up to 200 people in a single defined space at an indoor venue at any time. The limit includes children under 12, whānau pani and ringawera. There is no limit to how many people can be at an outdoor venue. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes marae churches, mosques and other faith-based places of worship hired venues or facilities private homes You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga, burial or viewing. You can serve food and drink. Defined spaces at Red A marae can have multiple groups of 200 people coming through to attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Red Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). Up to 200 people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you are fully vaccinated. This can include: washing dressing shrouding other preparations for cremation or burial. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility, and all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask if the funeral or tangihanga has exclusive use of a venue. We encourage you to wear a face mask in shared areas — if there are other activities happening at the venue at the same time. Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. Workers hosting or officiating the service do not need to wear a face mask when speaking and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. When you need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: not kiss or touch the body wash your hands thoroughly after the viewing physically distance from others of at least 1 metre. --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings You can have up to 200 people at an indoor gathering at Red. Outdoor gatherings have no limit. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings can go ahead. Indoor gatherings are limited to 200 people. Outdoor gatherings have no limit . Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not people working at a gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering, or when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. At all gatherings, people do not need to physically distance. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings can go ahead at Red. A gathering is a group of people in a defined space, but does not include a group of people at an event. Types of gatherings include: catching up with friends and whānau weddings and civil union ceremonies most faith-based gatherings get-togethers and parties at your home club functions social sports funerals and tangihanga most gatherings at marae street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs. Find more information: Faith-based gatherings at Red Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Marae at Red --- Section Separator --- Gatherings at your home or a private dwelling are limited to 200 people . Gatherings at other indoor venues are limited to a maximum of 200 people. It is the responsibility of the venue to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Smaller venues will be limited to fewer than 200 people. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend an outdoor gathering. Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering. People at the gathering do not need to sit down to eat or drink. If you have exclusive use of the venue, then you can follow the gathering rules. If you do not have exclusive use of the venue, and you are mixing with members of the public, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow hospitality advice. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at an indoor gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering, or at an indoor gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. This means that you do not need to wear a face mask at most weddings, funerals or tangihanga, or faith-based gatherings. Everyone working at the gathering must wear a face mask — unless they are exempt. Performers do not need to wear a face mask when performing and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. They should wear face masks when not performing. When to wear a face mask Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. Advice for faith-based gatherings --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Visiting friends and whānau You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, healthcare facilities and prisons at Red. --- Section Separator --- Friends and whānau can visit each other's homes at every traffic light setting. There may be restrictions on who can visit rest homes, aged care facilities, hospitals and healthcare facilities. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility, hospital or healthcare facility. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Examples include: catching up with friends and whānau at their home or your home parties and other gatherings at their home or your home. You and your guests do not need to wear face masks. Learn more about private gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care facility or rest home before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting. Do not visit if you are: unwell or have COVID-19-like symptoms isolating waiting for a COVID-19 test result. Guidance for aged care providers | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep workers and patients safe. Examples include limiting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Do not visit if you are: unwell or have COVID-19-like symptoms isolating waiting for a COVID-19 test result. Guidance for health professionals | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some prisons allow face-to-face visits for private and legal visitors. Other prisons offer video calls but not in-person visits. You do not need to be vaccinated to visit someone in prison. But you are encouraged to: be vaccinated and boosted take a rapid antigen test (RAT) and get a negative result. Check which prisons allow visits on the Corrections website. Prison visit updates | Corrections NZ (external link) (external link)C --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask when you visit friends and whānau at their home, or host a gathering in your own home. You must wear a face mask when visiting: aged care facilities and rest homes hospitals healthcare facilities. When you must wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Hospitality venues Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can open at Red. There can be up to 200 people indoors , including children. There are no capacity limits outdoors . Customers must be seated and separated from other groups indoors. You must wear a face mask when at a hospitality venue. Public-facing workers must also wear face masks. --- Section Separator --- There can be up to 200 people indoors, including children. The limit does not include workers. There is no limit for outdoor venues . Customers must be seated and separated from other groups indoors. Nightclubs can open, but customers must be seated and separated, which means dancing is not allowed. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) Food courts do not need to follow the seated and separated rules or the capacity limits unless they are serving alcohol. Otherwise, food courts should follow the rules for retail. Shopping and services at Red --- Section Separator --- Food and beverage businesses that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can open. Takeaway services and food courts should follow the rules for retail. Shopping and services at Red Order ahead, either online or over the phone. Wear a face mask. Prepay online, or use a contactless payment method, like PayWave. If you are using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, we recommend you wash or sanitise your hands as soon as possible. You may be able to use reusable cups or containers. Check with the takeaway provider. Keep apart from others while waiting in a queue. Get it and go — make your visit as quick as possible. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask when at a hospitality business, for example, when paying, using the bathroom and entering and exiting the venue. You can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink. Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave your house wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Public-facing workers at a hospitality business must wear a medical-grade face mask. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Businesses can find more information about the framework on business.govt.nz. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Businesses can find more information about the framework on business.govt.nz.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Moving, buying and selling your home You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can move house and buy and sell property at Red. You can have up to 200 people based on 1-metre distancing at an open home or property inspection. --- Section Separator --- You can move house at Red. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at all traffic light settings for any reason, including to move house. Travel and accommodation at Red --- Section Separator --- You can buy or sell your home at Red. You can hold and attend open homes. You can carry out property inspections. Advice for landlords and tenants | Tenancy Services (external link) Properties can have up to 200 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space at any time. It is the responsibility of the property owner or real estate agent to comply with capacity limits. Guidelines for real estate activities at Red | Real Estate Authority (external link) Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- Property owners and real estate agents should agree on any face mask requirements for open homes. At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies and moving companies can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Real estate agencies can find advice for holding open homes and auctions on the Real Estate Authority website. Landlords and tenants can find more detailed advice on the Tenancy Services website. --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies and moving companies can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz. Real estate agencies can find advice for holding open homes and auctions on the Real Estate Authority website. Landlords and tenants can find more detailed advice on the Tenancy Services website.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Red with some protections. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. --- Section Separator --- Shops, retail outlets, and close-proximity businesses, such as barbers, can open at Red. The number of people allowed inside a business depends on how large the premises is. You must wear a face mask indoors when visiting shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses. You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. --- Section Separator --- Shops, including outdoor markets, banks, food courts and takeaway-only businesses, can open at Red. The number of people allowed at a retail outlet depends on how large the premises is. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, though this does not change how many people can be there. If they do, they can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the shop. Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can visit a close-proximity business at Red. You should keep 1 metre apart from other customers and workers, except when close contact is required to provide the service. Examples of close-proximity businesses include: barbers hairdressers beauty salons driving instructors massage therapists. Businesses may have additional restrictions under Red, for example, some hairdressers may choose to not provide refreshments. Check with the business before you go. These rules also apply to people providing close-proximity services in people’s homes — for example, mobile hairdressers. --- Section Separator --- You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Tradespeople must wear a face mask when inside your home. Examples of trades and home services are: getting home appliances fixed, like your fridge utility services, like gas and power cleaning for people who need assistance because of sickness or disability gardening services getting internet or other services installed or fixed locksmiths vet and pest management services. While they are inside your house it is strongly recommended you: keep 1 metre apart from them, and wear a face mask. Do not invite tradespeople or home service providers into your home if you are isolating or are unwell — unless it is an emergency or you have a support carer. If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave your house wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You can remove your face mask to eat or drink. You must wear a face mask: inside retail businesses, for example, supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies and petrol stations in takeaway food stores at a vet clinic when visiting a close-proximity business, for example, hairdressers, barbers and beauty salons. At a close-proximity business, you may be able to remove your face mask if you could not receive the service if you left it on. An example is getting a beard trim. Check with the staff before you take your face mask off. Retail workers, tradespeople and workers at close-proximity businesses must wear a face mask. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more information at business.govt.nz. Close-proximity businesses can find more information at business.govt.nz. Trades and services can find more information on business.govt.nz. --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more information at business.govt.nz. Close-proximity businesses can find more information at business.govt.nz. Trades and services can find more information on business.govt.nz.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Sport and recreation You can attend sports events and play sports at Red. Recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor sports events can go ahead. Indoor sports events are limited to 200 people. Outdoor sports events have no limits . Gyms and indoor recreation facilities can open with up to 200 people. Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead with no limits . Swimming pools can open. Gym staff must wear a face mask, except when they are instructing a class and can maintain a 2-metre distance from others. --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor sports, including sporting events, can go ahead at Red. This includes professional and community sports, like organised social touch rugby. Spectators should keep 2 metres apart from players. Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities can open at Red. This includes: gyms dance studios yoga studios health clubs ice skating rinks bowling alleys parks and playgrounds sports grounds outdoor exercise classes. Businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements and ask to see your My Vaccine Pass. Private clubs, such as golf or tennis clubs, that are not members-only indoor exercise facilities, can choose to restrict their facilities to vaccinated people only. Contact your local club to find out how they are operating. --- Section Separator --- There is no capacity limit for outdoor sporting events or recreation facilities, for example, exercise classes, community sports or parks and playgrounds. Indoor sport and recreation facilities, for example, stadiums, indoor arenas, or gyms, can have up to 200 people based on 1-metre distancing , in a defined space at the venue at any time. As there can be multiple defined spaces, this means: you can have multiple groups of spectators — they need to be 2 metres from any other group, and multiple games running at once — they must be 2 metres away from other groups. It is the responsibility of the business or organiser to ensure indoor venues comply with capacity limits. Defined spaces at Red The limit does not include workers at the venue. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Red, you are encouraged to wear a face mask whenever you leave your house. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask You do not need to wear a face mask: outdoors at a swimming pool at a gym or indoor recreation facility when you are exercising. Gym staff must wear a face mask, except when they are instructing a class and can maintain a 2-metre distance from others. It must be a medical-grade face mask. --- Section Separator --- If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Red If you are holding a gathering at a recreation facility, you will need to follow the rules for gatherings. Gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- Public recreation facilities will follow the guidelines for public facilities. This includes public swimming pools. Public facilities at Red Public swimming pools can open. If you are visiting a public swimming pool, you must follow the rules for public facilities. You do not need to wear a face mask at a swimming pool. Swimmers should keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Indoor and outdoor swimming pools at private facilities can open. This includes saunas and steam rooms. Learn to swim classes can continue. It is the responsibility of the facility to ensure a swimming pool complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can travel for sport or recreation — including overnight camping trips and trips to your bach or holiday home. Travel and accommodation at Red --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find detailed information on business.govt.nz. Sports clubs can find detailed information on Sport New Zealand's website. Recreation businesses can find detailed information on business.govt.nz. Display posters to let everyone know what COVID-19 requirements are in place. --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find detailed information on business.govt.nz. Sports clubs can find detailed information on Sport New Zealand's website. Recreation businesses can find detailed information on business.govt.nz. Display posters to let everyone know what COVID-19 requirements are in place.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Travel and accommodation You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. This information is for domestic travel. --- Section Separator --- At Red, you can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason. Accommodation can open at Red. There are no capacity limits. Do not travel if you are unwell or isolating. You must wear a face mask on all flights and public transport, in taxi and ride-share services. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand for any reason at Red. There are no regional boundaries. If you are travelling into different setting areas, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. Unless your transport provider requires it, you do not need a My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test to travel. You can take public transport, taxis and ride-shares. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, or at bus stops or train stations. If you are self-isolating, you can only leave your home for a few reasons. Do not travel if you are unwell or isolating. If you have COVID-19 What to do if you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Accommodation can open at Red. There are no capacity limits. This includes: hotels and motels boarding houses backpackers campgrounds and cabins seasonal worker accommodation AirBnB properties tertiary accommodation. It does not include private residences. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the accommodation facility. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an accommodation facility, follow the relevant advice: Events at Red Gatherings at Red Accommodation services can provide food and drink. Customer-facing food and beverage services, other than room service, must follow the food and beverage rules. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport in taxis and ride-share services on Cook Strait ferries at arrival and departure points that are indoors, for example inside airports and terminals on all Kiwirail services — but you can take your face mask off when you are in your seat inside your allocated carriage. If you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above, you must wear a face mask on public transport and Ministry of Education-funded school transport (school buses). You must wear a face mask if you are indoors at a food and drink business attached to an accommodation provider. You can take your face mask off when seated and to eat and drink. We encourage you to wear a face mask in communal areas. When you must wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 while you are away from home, you and the people you are travelling with will need to isolate. You can only return home if you have a private vehicle, and you do not need to use public transport — such as a ferry — to get home. Make sure you have a plan in case this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Healthy habits help protect you, your whānau and others from catching or spreading COVID-19. Examples include: wear a face mask indoors stay home when sick open windows to let out stale air wash or sanitise your hands physically distance from people you do not know. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Transport providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Find COVID-19 information for transport and travel operators on the Ministry of Transport's website. --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Transport providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Find COVID-19 information for transport and travel operators on the Ministry of Transport's website.
