If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you can get free antiviral medicines. What you need to know If you have COVID-19 People at higher risk COVID-19 symptoms Self-isolation rules Household Contacts Get a booster When to wear a face mask International travel Weekly case numbers Alternate formats --- Section Separator --- The Government is narrowing the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act and removing the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. The Omicron subvariant BQ1.1 has been circulating in the Northern Hemisphere and has now been found in New Zealand. An analysis of deaths from COVID-19 in New Zealand shows being up to date with your vaccines is the single best way to reduce the risk of dying from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 has taken a toll on everyone’s mental health. Tools are available to help you recover from the impact of the pandemic. To reduce the risk of catching or spreading the virus, stay up to date with your vaccinations, including boosters. --- Section Separator --- Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. COVID-19 has taken a toll on everyone’s mental health. Tools are available to help you recover from the impact of the pandemic. To reduce the risk of catching or spreading the virus, stay up to date with your vaccinations, including boosters.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. If you are aged 50 or over, you can get a second booster now. You might be interested in Child vaccinations Check your eligibility International travel vaccination certificates How to use My Covid Record About Novavax Vaccine advice for disabled people COVID-19 vaccine data --- Section Separator --- Talk to the COVID Vaccination Healthline 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. Call 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity stronger for longer. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. All vaccination mandates have ended. For health and safety, some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated against COVID-19. Find, download and share posters and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity stronger for longer. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. All vaccination mandates have ended. For health and safety, some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated against COVID-19. Find, download and share posters and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine boosters Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity stronger for longer. --- Section Separator --- Protection for the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. Staying up to date with your vaccinations keeps your immunity levels high. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. --- Section Separator --- You can get a first booster if you: are aged 16 or over have completed your primary course of the vaccine (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are aged 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster 6 months after your last dose. If you are 18 or over, you can get a Pfizer booster 3 months after your last dose, or a Novavax booster 6 months after your last dose. You can get a second booster if you are at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19. This includes: everyone aged 50 and over healthcare, aged care and disability workers aged 30 and over residents of aged care and disability care facilities severely immunocompromised people who received a 3-dose primary course and a fourth dose as a first booster (this would be a fifth dose for these people) people aged 16 and over who live with disability with significant or complex health needs or multiple comorbidities people aged 16 and over with a medical condition that increases the risk of severe COVID-19 illness. If you are eligible, you can get your second booster 6 months after your first booster. Clinical criteria in support of second booster eligibility | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It can show you where vaccination sites are, how soon you can get an appointment, and which vaccine types are available. Appointment availability map | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz The COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Call: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. If you have had COVID-19 and are eligible for a booster, you can get it 3 months after you tested positive. --- Section Separator --- You can check the date of your last vaccination in My Covid Record. Visit My Covid Record (external link) To find out over the phone, call the COVID Vaccination Healthline. You can call between 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Call: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- When you get a booster it is added to My Covid Record. You can then download another International Travel Vaccination Certificate or vaccination record. Visit My Covid Record (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 The COVID-19 vaccine protects your child, your whānau and your community. It is free and available now for everyone aged 5 and over. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. Like adults, if your child is infected with COVID-19 they may transmit the virus to other people. Immunising tamariki helps protect whānau members whose health makes them more vulnerable to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children and young people who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Tamariki aged 5 to 11 receive a children’s (paediatric) version of the Pfizer vaccine, with a lower dose and smaller volume. It is also given using a smaller needle. The lower dose was chosen based on a trial that showed the lower dose was safe and had few side effects in this age group. Children are not eligible for a booster. To be fully protected, children need 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine. It is recommended the first and second dose are at least 8 weeks apart. The interval can be shortened to a minimum of 21 days if needed — for example, if the child is starting significant immunosuppression treatment. You will need to discuss this with the child's doctor. --- Section Separator --- If children and young people who have been vaccinated do develop COVID-19, they are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. For children aged 5 to 11, clinical trial results showed the Pfizer vaccine was 90.7% effective against getting COVID-19 symptoms, and no participants developed severe COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is responsible for approving the use of all medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. They only approve a vaccine in Aotearoa once they are satisfied it has met strict standards for safety, efficacy and quality. The trials in 5 to 11-year-olds with a child dose of the Pfizer showed the vaccine was safe, and the side effects were generally mild. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand Research and data on vaccinating children aged 5 to 11 | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Explain that it might hurt for a short time, just like their other childhood immunisations. Tell them there will be a small needle and that they will feel a sharp scratch or sting briefly but then it will be over. They may have a sore arm, fever, headache or feel tired afterwards. It is important to tell them why they are getting vaccinated. Let them know the vaccine will protect them against COVID-19, and protect their family, their grandparents, their community, and other kids at school who may be more at risk from COVID-19 if they catch it. Make sure they know they will need 2 doses. Give them time to ask the vaccinator questions if they have them. Have some games or toys ready so you can distract them during their vaccination and entertain them while you wait for 15 minutes afterwards. Arrange a fun activity or treat to look forward to after the appointment. Tell them that they might feel a bit unwell or a day or two, and arrange to spend some extra time with them if you can. What to expect after your child's vaccination [PDF, 260 KB] --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand that offer vaccinations for tamariki. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Check the appointment availability map first — it shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. You can choose the child vaccine (5 to 11) or adult vaccine (12+) from the dropdown menu. Appointment availability map | Book My Vaccine (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz 0800 28 29 26 It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. It is a good idea to have your child's NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Not all COVID-19 vaccination sites will be offering vaccinations to 5 to 11-year-olds. Find a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre near you --- Section Separator --- If you would like to talk through any questions or worries, you can call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori communities | Karawhiua (external link) Information for Pacific Peoples | Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link)
We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Answering your questions Why do I need a booster? Can I get Novavax? Should I get vaccinated if I am pregnant? Does the vaccine work against Omicron? Is it safe for children? Will I get side effects? Will the vaccine stop transmission? --- Section Separator --- Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. In the clinical trials it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against Omicron, a booster is likely offer greater protection by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. We are encouraging everyone who is eligible to get a free booster now. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines needed to be rolled out quickly, but that does not mean safety was compromised. The Pfizer vaccine we are using in New Zealand is held to the same high safety standards as any other medicine. COVID-19 vaccines are the most well-studied vaccines ever made. More than 50% of the world's population have had a COVID-19 vaccine. Nearly 4 million people in Aotearoa have had their second Pfizer vaccine, and over 2.5 million people have had a booster. This means we have lots of data to show the Pfizer vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety. --- Section Separator --- You might feel nervous about getting the vaccine, which is normal. A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm, and it will be over very fast. You will then need to stay for at least 15 minutes so we can make sure you do not have an immediate reaction. --- Section Separator --- If you have another question, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Unite against COVID-19 Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Information for Māori communities — Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination information — Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] --- Section Separator --- It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Unite against COVID-19 Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Information for Māori communities — Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination information — Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. --- Section Separator --- Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice If you are pregnant or breastfeeding --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. It is recommended that pregnant people receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get your booster at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster at least 6 months after completing your primary course. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) Covid 19 vaccines, pregnancy and breastfeeding [PDF, 362 KB] Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. It is recommended that pregnant people receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get your booster at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster at least 6 months after completing your primary course. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Covid 19 vaccines, pregnancy and breastfeeding [PDF, 362 KB] Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Vaccines used in New Zealand Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get your COVID-19 vaccination Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. What you need to know Vaccine side effects Boosters If you have a health condition Child vaccinations Vaccine advice for disabled people If you are pregnant or breastfeeding --- Section Separator --- Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The Novavax vaccine is not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to previous vaccination and help your immunity be stronger and last longer. If you have had COVID-19 and are eligible for a booster, you can get it 3 months after you tested positive. COVID-19 vaccine boosters --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It can show you where vaccination sites are, how soon you can get an appointment, and which vaccine types are available. Appointment availability map | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz The COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Call: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- You will need your booking reference to reschedule or cancel an appointment online. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. Cancel or change your booking online | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) Call: 0800 28 29 26
Home COVID-19 vaccines Side effects --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. Some side effects are more serious but rare, such as a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are watched for around 15 minutes post-vaccination. Vaccinators are well trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle. Pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections including COVID-19, but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the COVID-19 vaccines. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis and pericarditis include: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is 'skipping beats'. If you get any of these symptoms after your Pfizer or Novavax vaccination, promptly get medical help — for example from your doctor or after-hours medical service. You will not have to pay for this. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 at any time to get advice. If you need urgent medical help, call 111 . Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. Also tell them if you have COVID-19, or have had it. Children are less likely to have these side effects but may not tell you about the symptoms. We recommend you ask your child how they feel after being vaccinated. A rare but serious side effect is a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis). These reactions usually happen soon after your vaccination, which is why you need to wait at least 15 minutes. If you do have a serious allergic reaction, vaccinators are trained to help. COVID-19: Vaccine side effects and reactions | Ministry of Health (external link) It is recommended you do not have Novavax if you have had a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) to a previous dose of the vaccine or to any component of the vaccine. Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health (external link) Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | Ministry of Health (external link) If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM | New Zealand Pharmacovigilance Centre (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. --- Section Separator --- Some side effects are more serious but rare, such as a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are watched for around 15 minutes post-vaccination. Vaccinators are well trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle. Pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections including COVID-19, but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the COVID-19 vaccines. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis and pericarditis include: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is 'skipping beats'. If you get any of these symptoms after your Pfizer or Novavax vaccination, promptly get medical help — for example from your doctor or after-hours medical service. You will not have to pay for this. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 at any time to get advice. If you need urgent medical help, call 111 . Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination so they can assess you properly. Also tell them if you have COVID-19, or have had it. Children are less likely to have these side effects but may not tell you about the symptoms. We recommend you ask your child how they feel after being vaccinated. A rare but serious side effect is a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis). These reactions usually happen soon after your vaccination, which is why you need to wait at least 15 minutes. If you do have a serious allergic reaction, vaccinators are trained to help. COVID-19: Vaccine side effects and reactions | Ministry of Health (external link) It is recommended you do not have Novavax if you have had a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) to a previous dose of the vaccine or to any component of the vaccine. Getting Novavax | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. --- Section Separator --- If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM | New Zealand Pharmacovigilance Centre (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine boosters What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine passes and certificates Vaccinations and work COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- The final mandate for government workers ended at 11:59 pm on Monday 26 September 2022. This applied to some health and disability workers. Some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated due to health and safety. We have updated this page. Some health and disability sector employers may require workers to be vaccinated. This is because workers come into close contact with people likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. Employers can choose to require workers to be vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccination requirements may only be appropriate if the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19 at work is higher than in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read guidance on the Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand websites: COVID-19 controls at work | WorkSafe (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | Employment New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- The final mandate for government workers ended at 11:59 pm on Monday 26 September 2022. This applied to some health and disability workers. Some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated due to health and safety. We have updated this page. --- Section Separator --- Some health and disability sector employers may require workers to be vaccinated. This is because workers come into close contact with people likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Employers can choose to require workers to be vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccination requirements may only be appropriate if the risk of catching or spreading COVID-19 at work is higher than in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read guidance on the Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand websites: COVID-19 controls at work | WorkSafe (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | Employment New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine boosters What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine passes and certificates Vaccinations and work COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines What to expect when you get your vaccination --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. COVID Immunisation Register (CIR) privacy statement | Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The Novavax vaccine is not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. COVID Immunisation Register (CIR) privacy statement | Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The Novavax vaccine is not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. COVID-19 vaccines used in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccine boosters What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine passes and certificates Vaccinations and work COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home International travel Information for air and sea travellers about entering and leaving New Zealand. What you need to know Recommended testing when you arrive in NZ If you get COVID-19 while visiting NZ When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- You do not have to complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration (NZTD) to enter New Zealand. Travellers and crew do not need proof of COVID-19 vaccination to enter New Zealand. Please check with your airline or cruise provider as they may still require proof of vaccination. If you have COVID-19 symptoms when you arrive in New Zealand by air, we encourage you to take a rapid antigen test (RAT). You can get free RATs at the airport. Please report a positive test result by calling: 0800 432 010 — if you are calling from a New Zealand phone number +64 9 954 6118 — if you are using an international SIM card. Check with your phone provider as there may be charges. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's maritime border is open to foreign commercial vessels, including trade and cargo vessels. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. New Zealand's maritime border is open to foreign registered recreational vessels — including superyachts. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. What you need to know about the current COVID-19 measures in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's maritime border is open to foreign commercial vessels, including trade and cargo vessels. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. New Zealand's maritime border is open to foreign registered recreational vessels — including superyachts. Find out what you need to do to enter New Zealand. What you need to know about the current COVID-19 measures in New Zealand.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. --- Section Separator --- Updates to the COVID-19 response [BRF, 3 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [BRF, 7 KB] Changes to the COVID-19 rules [DOCX, 9.1 MB] Changes to the COVID-19 rules [PDF, 2.1 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] Updates to the COVID-19 response [DOCX, 349 KB] Updates to the COVID-19 response [MP3, 1 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 40 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [MP3, 3.3 MB] Updates to the COVID-19 response (external link) Medicines for treating COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Braille --- Section Separator --- Updates to the COVID-19 response [BRF, 3 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [BRF, 7 KB] Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [BRF, 6 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 1 KB] Getting free face masks [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [BRF, 3 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Getting your booster dose [BRF, 4 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] My Covid Record [BRF, 3 KB] My Vaccine Pass [BRF, 4 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [BRF, 1 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 4 KB] Isolating at home [BRF, 4 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [BRF, 2 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [BRF, 7 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [BRF, 4 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- Updates to the COVID-19 response [BRF, 3 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [BRF, 7 KB] --- Section Separator --- Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [BRF, 6 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 1 KB] Getting free face masks [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [BRF, 3 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Getting your booster dose [BRF, 4 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [BRF, 3 KB] My Covid Record [BRF, 3 KB] My Vaccine Pass [BRF, 4 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [BRF, 1 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 4 KB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [BRF, 4 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [BRF, 2 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [BRF, 6 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [BRF, 7 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand [BRF, 4 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read --- Section Separator --- Changes to the COVID-19 rules [DOCX, 9.1 MB] Changes to the COVID-19 rules [PDF, 2.1 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 13 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [PDF, 3.2 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Getting free face masks [PDF, 1.4 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 3.9 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] (external link) What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [PDF, 1.2 MB] (external link) Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [PDF, 2.8 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [DOCX, 17 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [PDF, 2.6 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [DOCX, 14 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [PDF, 2.3 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [DOCX, 5.4 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [PDF, 1.5 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 5.2 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [PDF, 1.3 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 12 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 3 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [PDF, 2.4 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Changes to the COVID-19 rules [DOCX, 9.1 MB] Changes to the COVID-19 rules [PDF, 2.1 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 13 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [PDF, 3.2 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Getting free face masks [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 3.9 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [DOCX, 4.5 MB] Information about the second COVID-19 booster vaccine [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] (external link) What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [PDF, 1.2 MB] (external link) Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [PDF, 2.8 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [DOCX, 17 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [PDF, 2.6 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [DOCX, 14 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [PDF, 2.3 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [DOCX, 5.4 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 2.7 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 5.2 MB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [PDF, 1.3 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 12 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 3 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [PDF, 2.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting the support you need during COVID-19 [PDF, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio --- Section Separator --- Updates to the COVID-19 response [DOCX, 349 KB] Updates to the COVID-19 response [MP3, 1 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 40 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [MP3, 3.3 MB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 544 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 537 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [MP3, 2.9 MB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 35 KB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Wearing a face mask [MP3, 470 KB] Getting free face masks [MP3, 987 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] The Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 544 KB] Getting your booster dose [DOCX, 539 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.7 MB] Getting your booster dose [MP3, 10 MB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [MP3, 1.1 MB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] My Covid Record [DOCX, 539 KB] My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 541 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [DOCX, 538 KB] My Covid Record [MP3, 1.6 MB] My Vaccine Pass [MP3, 1.9 MB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [MP3, 357 KB] How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 541 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [DOCX, 539 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 542 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.6 MB] Isolating at home [DOCX, 40 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 540 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 1.7 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [MP3, 894 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 40 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [MP3, 3.3 MB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 38 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [MP3, 1.9 MB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 386 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- Updates to the COVID-19 response [DOCX, 349 KB] Updates to the COVID-19 response [MP3, 1 MB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 40 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [MP3, 3.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 Information for parents [DOCX, 544 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 537 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 Information for parents [MP3, 2.9 MB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 35 KB] Getting free face masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Wearing a face mask [MP3, 470 KB] Getting free face masks [MP3, 987 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 544 KB] Getting your booster dose [DOCX, 539 KB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.7 MB] Getting your booster dose [MP3, 10 MB] Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose [MP3, 1.1 MB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] My Covid Record [DOCX, 539 KB] My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 541 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [DOCX, 538 KB] My Covid Record [MP3, 1.6 MB] My Vaccine Pass [MP3, 1.9 MB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [MP3, 357 KB] --- Section Separator --- How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 541 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [DOCX, 539 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 542 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 40 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [DOCX, 540 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 1.7 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people [MP3, 894 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [DOCX, 40 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] After you have had COVID-19 [DOCX, 543 KB] Medicines to treat COVID-19 [MP3, 3.3 MB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] After you have had COVID-19 [MP3, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 38 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [MP3, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 386 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language --- Section Separator --- Changes to the COVID-19 rules (external link) Medicines to treat COVID-19 (external link) The COVID-19 virus and symptoms (external link) COVID-19 Information for parents (external link) COVID-19 variants (external link) Long COVID (external link) Getting the right information (external link) Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? (external link) COVID-19 readiness walkthrough (external link) Wearing a face mask (external link) Getting free face masks (external link) Getting your face mask exemption pass (external link) Be mindful of masks (external link) The Pfizer vaccine (external link) Getting your booster dose (external link) Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose (external link) 3rd Primary Dose for Immunocompromised People (external link) Vaccination medical exemptions (external link) How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) Keep up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations (external link) My Covid Record (external link) My Vaccine Pass (external link) Updated My Vaccine Passes (external link) International Travel Vaccination Certificate (external link) COVID-19 Vaccine for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years (external link) After your child's Pfizer vaccination (external link) How to get a Rapid Antigen Test (external link) How to use a Rapid Antigen Test (external link) How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results (external link) What to expect from a PCR test (external link) If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 (external link) What happens if you test positive for COVID-19 (external link) How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form (external link) Isolating at home (external link) Medicines for treating COVID-19 (external link) Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people (external link) Help while you are self-isolating (external link) Managing your COVID-19 symptoms (external link) After you have had COVID-19 (external link) Travelling to New Zealand (external link) Leaving New Zealand (external link) If you get COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand (external link) Services and support (external link) It's okay to ask for help (external link) It's ok to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in on others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) --- Section Separator --- Changes to the COVID-19 rules (external link) Medicines to treat COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 virus and symptoms (external link) COVID-19 Information for parents (external link) COVID-19 variants (external link) Long COVID (external link) Getting the right information (external link) Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? (external link) COVID-19 readiness walkthrough (external link) Wearing a face mask (external link) Getting free face masks (external link) Getting your face mask exemption pass (external link) Be mindful of masks (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine (external link) Getting your booster dose (external link) Getting your second COVID-19 booster dose (external link) 3rd Primary Dose for Immunocompromised People (external link) Vaccination medical exemptions (external link) How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) Keep up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations (external link) My Covid Record (external link) My Vaccine Pass (external link) Updated My Vaccine Passes (external link) International Travel Vaccination Certificate (external link) COVID-19 Vaccine for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years (external link) After your child's Pfizer vaccination (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to get a Rapid Antigen Test (external link) How to use a Rapid Antigen Test (external link) How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results (external link) What to expect from a PCR test (external link) If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 (external link) What happens if you test positive for COVID-19 (external link) How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form (external link) --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home (external link) Medicines for treating COVID-19 (external link) Urgent COVID-19 support for disabled people (external link) Help while you are self-isolating (external link) Managing your COVID-19 symptoms (external link) After you have had COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand (external link) Leaving New Zealand (external link) If you get COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- Services and support (external link) It's okay to ask for help (external link) It's ok to have feelings (external link) Looking after your mental wellbeing (external link) Staying mentally healthy (external link) Stay connected (external link) Check in on others who might need help (external link) Continue with your mental health treatment (external link) Are you struggling? (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel Te haere ki Aotearoa | Travelling to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- E haere ai koe ki Aotearoa, me tutuki i a koe ētahi herenga. Ko ngā hipanga i raro nei e whakamārama ana he aha ngā taunakitanga hei whakaatu māhau, e uru ai koe ki Aotearoa. Kua kore e hiahiatia tētahi whakamātautau i mua o te haerenga, e uru ai koe ki Aotearoa. Ehara i te mea me whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, me whakamātautau rānei i tō taenga ki Aotearoa. He tere te panoni o ngā tautuhinga - mā Immigration New Zealand e tuku i ngā mōhiohio hou rawa. Te haere ki Aotearoa | Immigration New Zealand (external link) E uru ai koe ki Aotearoa, me ea i a koe ngā herenga manene katoa. I mua i te haere, me tiro kei te mana tonu tō uruwhenua. Tērā pea me tono koe i tētahi New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Tirohia mēnā e māraurau ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Me tono i tētahi NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Tāpuitia tō haerenga ki Aotearoa. Tirohia te kaupapahere a te kaikawe mō te kano ārai mate, ngā whakakorenga me ngā whakahokinga moni, hua noa kei mate koe ki te panoni i ō maheretanga. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te hoko i te inihua haere, hua noa kei pāngia ō whakaritenga hāereere. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te tāpui i te wāhi noho hāngai mō te noho taratahi i te kāinga, ina hua ake tērā āhuatanga. Mēnā e hāngai ana, me whiwhi koe i tō: uruwhenua kōkota - ki te hiahiatia tīkiti mō tō haerenga Mā te Mana Ārai o Aotearoa e manatoko i tō hītori hāereere me ētahi atu herenga uru mai. Ka āhua roa pea te wā, i a koe e whakawhiti ana mā roto i te taunga rererangi. I Haumaru Koiora, e wātea ana ngā pūhera Whakatau hei kohinga i Haumaru Koiora. Kei roto i tō pūhera whakatau: Ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere he aratohu o te whakamātautau me te tuku atu i ō hua. E whakahau ana mātou kia whakahaere koe i ō whakamātautau, ka tāuta hoki i ō hua. Ngā whakaritenga whakamātautau i muri i te taenga ki Aotearoa --- Section Separator --- E haere ai koe ki Aotearoa, me tutuki i a koe ētahi herenga. Ko ngā hipanga i raro nei e whakamārama ana he aha ngā taunakitanga hei whakaatu māhau, e uru ai koe ki Aotearoa. Kua kore e hiahiatia tētahi whakamātautau i mua o te haerenga, e uru ai koe ki Aotearoa. Ehara i te mea me whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, me whakamātautau rānei i tō taenga ki Aotearoa. He tere te panoni o ngā tautuhinga - mā Immigration New Zealand e tuku i ngā mōhiohio hou rawa. Te haere ki Aotearoa | Immigration New Zealand (external link) E uru ai koe ki Aotearoa, me ea i a koe ngā herenga manene katoa. I mua i te haere, me tiro kei te mana tonu tō uruwhenua. Tērā pea me tono koe i tētahi New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Tirohia mēnā e māraurau ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Me tono i tētahi NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Tāpuitia tō haerenga ki Aotearoa. Tirohia te kaupapahere a te kaikawe mō te kano ārai mate, ngā whakakorenga me ngā whakahokinga moni, hua noa kei mate koe ki te panoni i ō maheretanga. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te hoko i te inihua haere, hua noa kei pāngia ō whakaritenga hāereere. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te tāpui i te wāhi noho hāngai mō te noho taratahi i te kāinga, ina hua ake tērā āhuatanga. Mēnā e hāngai ana, me whiwhi koe i tō: uruwhenua kōkota - ki te hiahiatia tīkiti mō tō haerenga Mā te Mana Ārai o Aotearoa e manatoko i tō hītori hāereere me ētahi atu herenga uru mai. Ka āhua roa pea te wā, i a koe e whakawhiti ana mā roto i te taunga rererangi. I Haumaru Koiora, e wātea ana ngā pūhera Whakatau hei kohinga i Haumaru Koiora. Kei roto i tō pūhera whakatau: Ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere he aratohu o te whakamātautau me te tuku atu i ō hua. E whakahau ana mātou kia whakahaere koe i ō whakamātautau, ka tāuta hoki i ō hua. Ngā whakaritenga whakamātautau i muri i te taenga ki Aotearoa --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home News and data Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. What you need to know Vaccination rates around NZ Media conferences Latest case numbers --- Section Separator --- The Government is narrowing the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act and removing the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. The Omicron subvariant BQ1.1 has been circulating in the Northern Hemisphere and has now been found in New Zealand. An analysis of deaths from COVID-19 in New Zealand shows being up to date with your vaccines is the single best way to reduce the risk of dying from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Report a breach online
Home News and data Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Data and statistics available: COVID-19 cases Vaccine data COVID-19 data portal Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 7 November 2022 The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. This includes: current COVID-19 cases case demographics source of COVID-19 cases. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more case data. COVID-19 current cases | Ministry of Health (external link) 322 Cases in hospital as at midnight Sunday 322 Cases in hospital as at midnight Sunday 2,967 New case 7-day rolling average 2,967 New case 7-day rolling average 20,802 New cases reported in the last week 20,802 New cases reported in the last week 216 People reinfected within 90 days (in the last week) 216 People reinfected within 90 days (in the last week) --- Section Separator --- You can filter case numbers by health districts, age groups, and first infections and reinfections. COVID-19 data charts | Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 7 November 2022 The Ministry of Health reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and deaths related to COVID-19. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more data. COVID-19 current cases data | Ministry of Health (external link) 2 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 2 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 2,119 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) 2,119 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 7 November 2022 The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more testing data. Testing for COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) 5,446 7-day rolling average of RATs each day 5,446 7-day rolling average of RATs each day 12,674 PCR tests in the past week 12,674 PCR tests in the past week --- Section Separator --- Last updated 2 November 2022 The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Data is updated weekly on a Wednesday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more vaccine data. COVID-19 vaccine data | Ministry of Health (external link) The dataset used to calculate the percentage of people vaccinated changed in August 2022. Find out more on the Te Whatu Ora website: Updated health user information informs COVID-19 vaccination programme | Te Whatu Ora (external link) 73% Percentage of eligible 18+ who have received first booster 73% Percentage of eligible 18+ who have received first booster 90% Percentage of 12+ who have completed primary course 90% Percentage of 12+ who have completed primary course 268,218 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 268,218 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 152,126 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 152,126 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 2,736,171 Booster first doses 2,736,171 Booster first doses 638,993 Booster second doses 638,993 Booster second doses --- Section Separator --- Check our map to find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | Stats NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- If data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and, for researchers, the ability to request detailed COVID-19 data. COVID-19 data resources | Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 1-10 of 1072 updates 18 Oct 2022 The Government is narrowing the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act and removing the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. 13 Oct 2022 The Omicron subvariant BQ1.1 has been circulating in the Northern Hemisphere and has now been found in New Zealand. 30 Sep 2022 An analysis of deaths from COVID-19 in New Zealand shows being up to date with your vaccines is the single best way to reduce the risk of dying from COVID-19. 21 Sep 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 15 Sep 2022 The Ministry of Health has released long COVID guidelines for health professionals, individuals and those caring for people with long COVID. 13 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 Sep 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 12 Sep 2022 The most recent health advice now tells us that with the lowest cases and hospitalisations since February, we are in a good position to move forward. 09 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Today is a significant milestone. The Government has been clear that the measures used to contain the spread of COVID-19 need to be proportionate to the risk of the virus, so it is appropriate to wind down many of the extraordinary powers that are no longer needed. What were once justified and served our country well should now be removed. With these changes, the legal framework matches the risk. The Government is also revoking the Epidemic Notice, which represents a move away from emergency arrangements to long-term management of the virus. Now, we can manage the virus with tools such as widened availability of antivirals, without having to resort to the most restrictive measures. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 being significantly narrowed to allow for a limited set of public health measures, as a guard against new COVID-19 waves or variants. This provides time to design future emergency epidemic response legislation. New Zealand Traveller Declaration will no longer be required from Thursday. The 7-day case isolation period and mask-wearing requirements for visitors in certain healthcare settings to remain for the time being as cases and hospitalisations tick up. Ministers have been reviewing the COVD-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 to ensure it is fit for purpose now that we are through the emergency response. The Government’s plan before the end of the year is to remove the most restrictive powers from the Act that are no longer required for the response, while still ensuring we can practically manage the ongoing impact of COVID-19. The Government will retain an ability to put in place case isolation periods and mask-wearing requirements and if necessary, requirements on travellers that can be called on if things change and we need to step up our response, but most other measures, including lockdowns, will be removed. Under the new plan, if other measures — beyond isolation periods, mask-wearing and traveller requirements — were needed the Government would need to pass new legislation to enable these. Keeping a basic legal framework in place provides sufficient time to consult on and design a replacement general pandemic piece of legislation that would set New Zealand in good stead for any future events, rather than having to start from scratch as we had to in 2020. When COVID arrived we had limited legislative tools to respond and new ones had to be created. It is critical that a legacy of this pandemic is a fit-for-purpose piece of pandemic legislation like we have for civil defence and natural disasters. Also ending on Thursday is the current requirement for travellers flying to New Zealand by air having to complete the online New Zealand Traveller Declaration (NZTD). Customs Minister Meka Whaitiri said the NZTD has been a vital tool in supporting the safe re-opening of our borders. The NZTD is an integral part of modernising Aotearoa’s border experience and the New Zealand Customs Service is working with border agencies to replace the paper arrival card with the online NZTD system by June 2023. Cabinet agreed yesterday to follow health advice and retain the 7-day isolation period for cases and mask-wearing requirements for visitors in certain healthcare settings for the time being. These core measures remain important, with indications of an upward trend in cases and growing concern about new Omicron subvariants that are driving waves of infection overseas. We have seen a slight uptick in cases and hospitalisations in the last couple of weeks. This was to be expected, and for now, these tools continue to prove effective in dampening the impact of the virus on the health system and in protecting the most vulnerable. The next review of these measures will be by the end of November 2022.
Displaying 11-20 of 1072 updates 08 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Sep 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 06 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Sep 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 29 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Aug 2022 New appointments have been made to the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group as well as extending the term of the group until December.
Displaying 1031-1040 of 1072 updates 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 1041-1050 of 1072 updates 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community.
Displaying 1051-1060 of 1072 updates 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm.
Displaying 1061-1070 of 1072 updates 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June.
Displaying 1071-1072 of 1072 updates 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 21-30 of 1072 updates 26 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 18 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Aug 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 16 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 31-40 of 1072 updates 12 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Aug 2022 New Zealand will remain at the Orange traffic light setting, while hospitalisations remain elevated and pressure on the health system continues through winter. 08 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Aug 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19. 03 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 41-50 of 1072 updates 01 Aug 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Jul 2022 New Zealand’s international border opens to all visitors, including from non-visa waiver countries, and international students from 11:59pm, 31 July 2022. 31 Jul 2022 The same vaccination rules for passengers arriving by air will apply to arrivals on cruise ships and recreational vessels such as ocean-going yachts. 29 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 21 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 51-60 of 1072 updates 20 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Jul 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 12pm. 18 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 15 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 14 Jul 2022 The Government is rolling out additional measures to help tackle the second Omicron wave and record levels of flu to ease pressure on the health system. 14 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 14 Jul 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 12:30pm. 13 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 12 Jul 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Home News and data Media conferences Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. --- Section Separator --- There is no media conference this week. --- Section Separator --- The Government is narrowing the COVID-19 Public Health Response Act and removing the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. The Omicron subvariant BQ1.1 has been circulating in the Northern Hemisphere and has now been found in New Zealand. An analysis of deaths from COVID-19 in New Zealand shows being up to date with your vaccines is the single best way to reduce the risk of dying from COVID-19.
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Face masks Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. Find out when you must wear them, how to wear them safely, who is exempt, and how to get free face masks. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help prevent the spread of COVID-19 in 2 ways. They reduce the number of virus particles someone with COVID-19 can spread. They prevent you from inhaling virus particles. The best protection is when everyone wears a face mask. How to wear a face mask safely --- Section Separator --- You can get free medical face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. To get free face masks, order online: Request free RATs and face masks | Ministry of Health (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You must wear one when visiting healthcare services. If you cannot wear a face mask you can get a Mask Exemption Pass. Different types of face masks offer different protection. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting with no gaps and used correctly and consistently. This will help to protect you and others from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. It should go over your nose, mouth and chin. It should be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides. You can easily make a fabric face mask. It should have 3 layers, with 1 layer of moisture-resistant fabric. It should have loops around your ears or head. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You must wear one when visiting healthcare services. If you cannot wear a face mask you can get a Mask Exemption Pass. Different types of face masks offer different protection. Make sure your face mask is well-fitting with no gaps and used correctly and consistently. This will help to protect you and others from COVID-19. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. It should go over your nose, mouth and chin. It should be well-fitting so there are no gaps above, below or on the sides. You can easily make a fabric face mask. It should have 3 layers, with 1 layer of moisture-resistant fabric. It should have loops around your ears or head. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Face masks Wearing a face mask --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at most healthcare services. We encourage you to wear a face mask in crowded places, such as public transport, or when visiting people at high risk. Your face mask must attach to your face by loops around your ears or head. If you are unable to wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can get free face masks when you pick up RATs from a testing centre. P2/N95 face masks will be available for people at higher risk of severe illness. Find a testing site with free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) You must wear a face mask at most healthcare services. For example, you must wear a face mask when visiting: doctors' clinics community and iwi health providers pharmacies — but not those inside supermarkets hospitals urgent care services, such as after-hours clinics dentists and oral health services disability support services residential care for older people and people with disabilities other health services such as optometrists and physiotherapists. You do not need to wear a face mask if: you live at a residential care service you visit psychotherapy, counselling, or mental health and addiction services. For patients and workers at healthcare services, face mask requirements will be decided locally. The Ministry of Health has information for staff about using personal protective equipment (PPE) such as face masks. Infection prevention and control for health and disability workers | Ministry of Health (external link) Mask-wearing in healthcare settings | Ministry of Health (external link) We strongly recommend patients at any healthcare service wear a face mask if they can. Some healthcare services may ask you to wear a face mask whatever your reason for being there. We encourage you to wear a face mask if you are: a Household Contact and testing daily for 5 days at higher risk of getting seriously ill from COVID-19 keen to reduce your risk of becoming sick. We also encourage you to wear a face mask in these places: public transport, including buses, commuter trains, indoors on ferries and flights crowded places enclosed spaces with poor ventilation close contact settings, such as face-to-face conversations. Some places, such as workplaces, special events or marae, may still ask you to wear a face mask. Face masks remain an important defence against COVID-19. The government will regularly review their use. You can get free medical face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. To get free face masks, order online: Request free RATs and face masks | Ministry of Health (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 Face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Mask Exemption Pass — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass (external link) Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. Do not worry if someone asks whether you can wear a face mask. They just want to help keep you and others safe. It is inappropriate for someone to ask about your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, these healthy habits will help keep you and others safe: Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2-metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at most healthcare services. We encourage you to wear a face mask in crowded places, such as public transport, or when visiting people at high risk. Your face mask must attach to your face by loops around your ears or head. If you are unable to wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can get free face masks when you pick up RATs from a testing centre. P2/N95 face masks will be available for people at higher risk of severe illness. Find a testing site with free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at most healthcare services. For example, you must wear a face mask when visiting: doctors' clinics community and iwi health providers pharmacies — but not those inside supermarkets hospitals urgent care services, such as after-hours clinics dentists and oral health services disability support services residential care for older people and people with disabilities other health services such as optometrists and physiotherapists. You do not need to wear a face mask if: you live at a residential care service you visit psychotherapy, counselling, or mental health and addiction services. For patients and workers at healthcare services, face mask requirements will be decided locally. The Ministry of Health has information for staff about using personal protective equipment (PPE) such as face masks. Infection prevention and control for health and disability workers | Ministry of Health (external link) Mask-wearing in healthcare settings | Ministry of Health (external link) We strongly recommend patients at any healthcare service wear a face mask if they can. Some healthcare services may ask you to wear a face mask whatever your reason for being there. We encourage you to wear a face mask if you are: a Household Contact and testing daily for 5 days at higher risk of getting seriously ill from COVID-19 keen to reduce your risk of becoming sick. We also encourage you to wear a face mask in these places: public transport, including buses, commuter trains, indoors on ferries and flights crowded places enclosed spaces with poor ventilation close contact settings, such as face-to-face conversations. Some places, such as workplaces, special events or marae, may still ask you to wear a face mask. Face masks remain an important defence against COVID-19. The government will regularly review their use. --- Section Separator --- You can get free medical face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. To get free face masks, order online: Request free RATs and face masks | Ministry of Health (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Mask Exemption Pass — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass (external link) --- Section Separator --- Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. Do not worry if someone asks whether you can wear a face mask. They just want to help keep you and others safe. It is inappropriate for someone to ask about your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, these healthy habits will help keep you and others safe: Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2-metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Face masks Wearing a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Wearing a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Keep track of where you have been Ventilation and COVID-19
Home Prepare and stay safe Looking after your mental wellbeing It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help if you are not coping or have concerns for others. --- Section Separator --- Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 keeps throwing new challenges our way. Find support, tips and advice to help you look after your mental health on the All Sorts website. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Small Steps are digital tools to help you maintain wellness, find relief, or get help for yourself, friends or whānau. The Groov app helps you monitor, manage and improve your mental wellbeing. You can pick your own daily goals and track your progress. Designed for and with Aotearoa's young people, Headstrong includes the Aroha chatbot ⁠— your virtual wellbeing guide. How COVID-19 can affect mental health, and ways to support yourself or other people on the Ministry of Health website. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 keeps throwing new challenges our way. Find support, tips and advice to help you look after your mental health on the All Sorts website. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Small Steps are digital tools to help you maintain wellness, find relief, or get help for yourself, friends or whānau. The Groov app helps you monitor, manage and improve your mental wellbeing. You can pick your own daily goals and track your progress. Designed for and with Aotearoa's young people, Headstrong includes the Aroha chatbot ⁠— your virtual wellbeing guide. How COVID-19 can affect mental health, and ways to support yourself or other people on the Ministry of Health website. --- Section Separator --- Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines and support (external link) --- Section Separator --- Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā | Mental Health Foundation (external link) --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. --- Section Separator --- Netsafe has information and resources to stay safe online. You can also report online incidents or harmful content such as misinformation or scams. Misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines work against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. If anyone in your whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. If you find any illegal content online, you can make a complaint to the Department of Internal Affairs. --- Section Separator --- Netsafe has information and resources to stay safe online. You can also report online incidents or harmful content such as misinformation or scams. Misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines work against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. If anyone in your whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. If you find any illegal content online, you can make a complaint to the Department of Internal Affairs.
Home Prepare and stay safe Preparing to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you must self-isolate for 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket, or to pick up essential supplies, like medication. You will need to have a plan for someone to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you need to self-isolate. Download: COVID-19 isolation plan [PDF, 86 KB] Household Contacts no longer need to isolate for 7 days. If you live with someone who tests positive for COVID-19, we recommend you: take a rapid antigen test (RAT) each day for 5 days avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts Make a plan for how you will get food and essential supplies. You may want to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs, or you can use a food delivery service. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything dropped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. If you need support while self-isolating Put together a hygiene kit with things like hand sanitiser, gloves, face masks, cleaning products and extra rubbish bags. If you have people in your household who need extra support, make a plan for their care. If you have shared custody arrangements, talk to your child’s other parent or caregiver to decide what will happen. Looking after your physical and mental wellbeing is important while you are at home. Try to think of ways you can get fresh air, or do some exercise. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood — but you cannot use any shared facilities, like a public swimming pool. Keep a safe distance from others when exercising. Looking after your mental wellbeing Check that you have basic medical supplies to help manage your symptoms. This could include pain relief, a thermometer, nasal spray, lozenges and your regular medications. If you are isolating and need medicine, you can contact your doctor or local pharmacy to arrange a delivery, or ask friends and whānau to collect it for you. Make a list of whānau information — include NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medications or medical supplies each person will need if they have to self-isolate. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, after-hours services, and any support agencies. Talk to your employer and child’s school so you and your tamariki are set up for working and learning from home. If you cannot work from home, talk to your employer about your pay and sick leave entitlements. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) Everyone’s living situation is different — you may be in a large family, living with flatmates, or you may live alone. For some people, it will be easier to limit contact with other household members if they have access to their own bathroom and bedroom. Talk with the people you live with to make a plan for how you will manage any shared spaces. Share your plan with wider whānau and neighbours and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. How to self-isolate Make a list of activities you can do to help pass the time. Have a plan with friends and whānau to stay connected online. Check you have enough pet food and supplies. If you are unable to look after a pet, ask someone else to care for them while you are self-isolating. Work out how to let people know you are self-isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 88 KB] --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you must self-isolate for 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket, or to pick up essential supplies, like medication. You will need to have a plan for someone to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you need to self-isolate. Download: COVID-19 isolation plan [PDF, 86 KB] --- Section Separator --- Household Contacts no longer need to isolate for 7 days. If you live with someone who tests positive for COVID-19, we recommend you: take a rapid antigen test (RAT) each day for 5 days avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Make a plan for how you will get food and essential supplies. You may want to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs, or you can use a food delivery service. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything dropped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. If you need support while self-isolating Put together a hygiene kit with things like hand sanitiser, gloves, face masks, cleaning products and extra rubbish bags. If you have people in your household who need extra support, make a plan for their care. If you have shared custody arrangements, talk to your child’s other parent or caregiver to decide what will happen. Looking after your physical and mental wellbeing is important while you are at home. Try to think of ways you can get fresh air, or do some exercise. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood — but you cannot use any shared facilities, like a public swimming pool. Keep a safe distance from others when exercising. Looking after your mental wellbeing Check that you have basic medical supplies to help manage your symptoms. This could include pain relief, a thermometer, nasal spray, lozenges and your regular medications. If you are isolating and need medicine, you can contact your doctor or local pharmacy to arrange a delivery, or ask friends and whānau to collect it for you. Make a list of whānau information — include NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medications or medical supplies each person will need if they have to self-isolate. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, after-hours services, and any support agencies. Talk to your employer and child’s school so you and your tamariki are set up for working and learning from home. If you cannot work from home, talk to your employer about your pay and sick leave entitlements. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) Everyone’s living situation is different — you may be in a large family, living with flatmates, or you may live alone. For some people, it will be easier to limit contact with other household members if they have access to their own bathroom and bedroom. Talk with the people you live with to make a plan for how you will manage any shared spaces. Share your plan with wider whānau and neighbours and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. How to self-isolate Make a list of activities you can do to help pass the time. Have a plan with friends and whānau to stay connected online. Check you have enough pet food and supplies. If you are unable to look after a pet, ask someone else to care for them while you are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- Work out how to let people know you are self-isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 88 KB] --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Testing and isolation Contact tracing Contact tracing notifies people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works and what you need to do if you are a Household or Close Contact. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, how to support contact tracing if you test positive, and getting alerts from the NZ COVID Tracer app. You are a Household Contact if you live with, or spend a night with, someone who has COVID-19. We recommend you test daily for 5 days with a rapid antigen test. You are a Close Contact if you had contact with someone with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to isolate. If you test positive for COVID-19 you will get a text message with a link to the online contact tracing form. It lets you share details of where you have been and if you need support. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, how to support contact tracing if you test positive, and getting alerts from the NZ COVID Tracer app. You are a Household Contact if you live with, or spend a night with, someone who has COVID-19. We recommend you test daily for 5 days with a rapid antigen test. You are a Close Contact if you had contact with someone with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to isolate. If you test positive for COVID-19 you will get a text message with a link to the online contact tracing form. It lets you share details of where you have been and if you need support.
Home Testing and isolation Contact tracing Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate or get a test. Monitor yourself for symptoms for 10 days, and if any develop, take a rapid antigen test (RAT). Wear a face mask whenever you leave your home for the first 5 days following exposure. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. You are a Close Contact in the following situations: If you have been close (within 1.5 metres) to someone who has COVID-19 for more than 15 minutes, and they were not wearing a face mask or not wearing it properly. If you have had direct contact with a person who has COVID-19. For example, kissing, or if the person coughed or sneezed on you. If you spent time in an indoor space with someone who has COVID-19 for more than 1 hour and at least one of the following. They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you may be notified by: the person who has COVID-19 a text message or call from the National Investigation and Tracing Centre (NITC) an orange Bluetooth alert on the NZ COVID Tracer app dashboard your employer or school. You do not need to self-isolate if you are a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms for 10 days, and if you develop any, take a rapid antigen test (RAT). You should wear a face mask whenever you leave your home for the first 5 days following exposure, to help reduce the risk of infecting others. Wearing a face mask is important when: visiting vulnerable people, such as older people and those who are immunocompromised using public transport in a crowded indoor space. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate or get a test. Monitor yourself for symptoms for 10 days, and if any develop, take a rapid antigen test (RAT). Wear a face mask whenever you leave your home for the first 5 days following exposure. --- Section Separator --- You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. You are a Close Contact in the following situations: If you have been close (within 1.5 metres) to someone who has COVID-19 for more than 15 minutes, and they were not wearing a face mask or not wearing it properly. If you have had direct contact with a person who has COVID-19. For example, kissing, or if the person coughed or sneezed on you. If you spent time in an indoor space with someone who has COVID-19 for more than 1 hour and at least one of the following. They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you may be notified by: the person who has COVID-19 a text message or call from the National Investigation and Tracing Centre (NITC) an orange Bluetooth alert on the NZ COVID Tracer app dashboard your employer or school. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to self-isolate if you are a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms for 10 days, and if you develop any, take a rapid antigen test (RAT). You should wear a face mask whenever you leave your home for the first 5 days following exposure, to help reduce the risk of infecting others. Wearing a face mask is important when: visiting vulnerable people, such as older people and those who are immunocompromised using public transport in a crowded indoor space. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts How to use the contact tracing form
Home Testing and isolation Contact tracing Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Household Contacts do not need to isolate. If you are a Household Contact, you should test daily for 5 days with a rapid antigen test (RAT) from the day the person with COVID-19 tested positive. Wear a face mask if you leave your home during your 5 days of testing. If you test positive for COVID-19, you must self-isolate for 7 days. The Close Contact Exemption Scheme for critical workers has ended. More information and advice | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) You are a Household Contact if you: normally live in a house or flat on a permanent or part-time basis (for example, shared custody) with a person who has tested positive, and you spent at least 1 night or day (more than 8 hours) in that residence while the person was infectious. You are also a Household Contact if you do not normally share a residence with the person who has COVID-19, but spent a night together in the same room. For people travelling or holidaying around New Zealand, Household Contacts include people who share non-communal holiday accommodation such as a: hotel room tent campervan temporary holiday home (such as a bach, Airbnb or similar). If you get COVID-19 while travelling The following people may be Close Contacts, but not Household Contacts: People who live in the same group accommodation as the person with COVID-19 (for example, in aged residential care facilities, halls of residences, boarding houses, hostels, backpackers, and transitional housing). Advice for Close Contacts If someone you live with tests positive for COVID-19, you do not need to isolate. You should test daily for 5 days with a rapid antigen test (RAT) from the day the person with COVID-19 tested positive. If any of your tests are positive, you must self-isolate for 7 days. If you cannot test daily, we recommend you stay home for 5 days. How to get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 You should report the results of your RATs, whether they are positive or negative. You can do this online through My Covid Record or call 0800 222 478 . Log into My Covid Record (external link) You should avoid or minimise contact with the person who has COVID-19 during their self-isolation period. You should wear a face mask if you leave your home during your 5 days of testing, to help reduce the risk of infecting others. Wearing a face mask is important when: visiting vulnerable people, such as older people and those who are immunocompromised using public transport in a crowded indoor space. Monitor for symptoms for 10 days from when the first person in your house tests positive. If you develop COVID-19 symptoms at any time, test and stay home until 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. If you test positive, you need to isolate for 7 days. For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) You do not need to restart daily testing if another person tests positive within the first person's 7-day isolation period, or within 10 days after the first case is released from isolation. If you had COVID-19 and it has been 28 days or fewer from your previous infection (either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms), and someone in your household tests positive, you are not considered a Household Contact and you do not need to test. If it has been 29 days or more since you had COVID-19 and someone in your household tests positive, then you should test daily for 5 days. If you test positive, you must self-isolate for 7 days. If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Household Contacts do not need to isolate. If you are a Household Contact, you should test daily for 5 days with a rapid antigen test (RAT) from the day the person with COVID-19 tested positive. Wear a face mask if you leave your home during your 5 days of testing. If you test positive for COVID-19, you must self-isolate for 7 days. The Close Contact Exemption Scheme for critical workers has ended. More information and advice | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are a Household Contact if you: normally live in a house or flat on a permanent or part-time basis (for example, shared custody) with a person who has tested positive, and you spent at least 1 night or day (more than 8 hours) in that residence while the person was infectious. You are also a Household Contact if you do not normally share a residence with the person who has COVID-19, but spent a night together in the same room. For people travelling or holidaying around New Zealand, Household Contacts include people who share non-communal holiday accommodation such as a: hotel room tent campervan temporary holiday home (such as a bach, Airbnb or similar). If you get COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- The following people may be Close Contacts, but not Household Contacts: People who live in the same group accommodation as the person with COVID-19 (for example, in aged residential care facilities, halls of residences, boarding houses, hostels, backpackers, and transitional housing). Advice for Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- If someone you live with tests positive for COVID-19, you do not need to isolate. You should test daily for 5 days with a rapid antigen test (RAT) from the day the person with COVID-19 tested positive. If any of your tests are positive, you must self-isolate for 7 days. If you cannot test daily, we recommend you stay home for 5 days. How to get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 You should report the results of your RATs, whether they are positive or negative. You can do this online through My Covid Record or call 0800 222 478 . Log into My Covid Record (external link) You should avoid or minimise contact with the person who has COVID-19 during their self-isolation period. You should wear a face mask if you leave your home during your 5 days of testing, to help reduce the risk of infecting others. Wearing a face mask is important when: visiting vulnerable people, such as older people and those who are immunocompromised using public transport in a crowded indoor space. Monitor for symptoms for 10 days from when the first person in your house tests positive. If you develop COVID-19 symptoms at any time, test and stay home until 24 hours after your symptoms resolve. If you test positive, you need to isolate for 7 days. For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not need to restart daily testing if another person tests positive within the first person's 7-day isolation period, or within 10 days after the first case is released from isolation. --- Section Separator --- If you had COVID-19 and it has been 28 days or fewer from your previous infection (either from when you tested positive or you first had symptoms), and someone in your household tests positive, you are not considered a Household Contact and you do not need to test. If it has been 29 days or more since you had COVID-19 and someone in your household tests positive, then you should test daily for 5 days. If you test positive, you must self-isolate for 7 days. If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts How to use the contact tracing form
Home Testing and isolation Contact tracing How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have been exposed to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have any underlying health conditions you may have details of your Household Contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited any welfare needs you may have. How to use the contact tracing form If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. How to upload your digital diary | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 11 77 88 . If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. More information about NZ COVID Tracer alerts | health.govt.nz (external link) You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your approximate arrival and departure time. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have been exposed to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have any underlying health conditions you may have details of your Household Contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited any welfare needs you may have. How to use the contact tracing form If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. How to upload your digital diary | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 11 77 88 . --- Section Separator --- If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. More information about NZ COVID Tracer alerts | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your approximate arrival and departure time. --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts How to use the contact tracing form
Home Testing and isolation Contact tracing How to use the contact tracing form --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 contact tracing form if you test positive for COVID-19. This is instead of doing a case interview over the phone. The contact tracing form lets you share your: contact and health details symptoms Household Contacts high-risk locations Bluetooth data. Sharing details of where you have been helps us quickly identify high-risk locations. This is so we can support and protect those most vulnerable in our community. The Ministry of Health stores this information securely. We will only use it for contact tracing purposes and to support your health needs. We only share information with agencies who are helping with this work. For most people, filling out this form should only take 5 to 10 minutes. If you are trying to remember where you have been while infectious it can help to look in the following places: personal diaries and calendars bank statements texts, phone logs and emails work location records Google locations social media. It may also help to ask family and friends you have spoken to recently. If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 11 77 88 . If you test positive for COVID-19, you will get a text message with a link and access code to the contact tracing form. The text message will be from 2328 or 2648. Once you start the online form, you should continue to complete it on the same device and browser. Please complete your submission in 1 sitting to avoid losing any of your data. Enter your access code and verify your identity by entering your date of birth. Read and understand how contact tracers will use the information you provide. You will need to provide us with: alternate contact details the address where you are self-isolating and if it is suitable for you to stay there. We ask these questions so that our COVID Care Co-ordination Hubs can assess your needs and get you extra support from local providers if you need it. Let us know if you are: a disabled person tangata whaikaha Māori a person with disabilities currently pregnant or gave birth recently immunosuppressed or have any underlying health condition. Tell us if you have been experiencing any COVID-19 symptoms and when they started. Take note of your self-isolation timeline the form provides. This includes the date you can leave self-isolation if you are feeling well. Day 0 is the day you tested positive or the day your symptoms started, whichever came first. We calculate Day 7 and Day 8 from this date, and if you are feeling well, can leave self-isolation on Day 8. Provide us with the details of your Household Contacts. We will need their: first and last name phone number email address date of birth. We will only use the information of people in your household for contact tracing purposes and to provide COVID-19 health advice. Tell us if you have been at any high-risk locations during your infectious period. Contact tracers focus on these locations to reduce the spread in vulnerable communities. You will find a list of high-risk locations in the form. If you have been to 1 or more, we ask you to share more information about them. This includes: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your arrival and departure time (to the best of your knowledge). Please also tell your Close Contacts that you have COVID-19. These are people you have been in contact with but do not live with, such as people you work with or friends. At the end of the form, you can review and submit your information. You can add more information to the form for up to 72 hours from when you received the text message. If you revisit the form, your information will re-appear, so you do not need to provide it again. Once you have submitted the form, you will get a Bluetooth tracing code. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on in the NZ COVID Tracer app you can use this to notify your contacts. This code lets the app send an anonymous notification to other app users you may have been near during your infectious period. The form includes instructions on how to put the Bluetooth tracing code into the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- You can use the COVID-19 contact tracing form if you test positive for COVID-19. This is instead of doing a case interview over the phone. The contact tracing form lets you share your: contact and health details symptoms Household Contacts high-risk locations Bluetooth data. Sharing details of where you have been helps us quickly identify high-risk locations. This is so we can support and protect those most vulnerable in our community. The Ministry of Health stores this information securely. We will only use it for contact tracing purposes and to support your health needs. We only share information with agencies who are helping with this work. For most people, filling out this form should only take 5 to 10 minutes. If you are trying to remember where you have been while infectious it can help to look in the following places: personal diaries and calendars bank statements texts, phone logs and emails work location records Google locations social media. It may also help to ask family and friends you have spoken to recently. If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 11 77 88 . --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will get a text message with a link and access code to the contact tracing form. The text message will be from 2328 or 2648. Once you start the online form, you should continue to complete it on the same device and browser. Please complete your submission in 1 sitting to avoid losing any of your data. Enter your access code and verify your identity by entering your date of birth. Read and understand how contact tracers will use the information you provide. You will need to provide us with: alternate contact details the address where you are self-isolating and if it is suitable for you to stay there. We ask these questions so that our COVID Care Co-ordination Hubs can assess your needs and get you extra support from local providers if you need it. Let us know if you are: a disabled person tangata whaikaha Māori a person with disabilities currently pregnant or gave birth recently immunosuppressed or have any underlying health condition. Tell us if you have been experiencing any COVID-19 symptoms and when they started. Take note of your self-isolation timeline the form provides. This includes the date you can leave self-isolation if you are feeling well. Day 0 is the day you tested positive or the day your symptoms started, whichever came first. We calculate Day 7 and Day 8 from this date, and if you are feeling well, can leave self-isolation on Day 8. Provide us with the details of your Household Contacts. We will need their: first and last name phone number email address date of birth. We will only use the information of people in your household for contact tracing purposes and to provide COVID-19 health advice. Tell us if you have been at any high-risk locations during your infectious period. Contact tracers focus on these locations to reduce the spread in vulnerable communities. You will find a list of high-risk locations in the form. If you have been to 1 or more, we ask you to share more information about them. This includes: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your arrival and departure time (to the best of your knowledge). Please also tell your Close Contacts that you have COVID-19. These are people you have been in contact with but do not live with, such as people you work with or friends. At the end of the form, you can review and submit your information. You can add more information to the form for up to 72 hours from when you received the text message. If you revisit the form, your information will re-appear, so you do not need to provide it again. Once you have submitted the form, you will get a Bluetooth tracing code. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on in the NZ COVID Tracer app you can use this to notify your contacts. This code lets the app send an anonymous notification to other app users you may have been near during your infectious period. The form includes instructions on how to put the Bluetooth tracing code into the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts How to use the contact tracing form
Home Testing and isolation Financial support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. --- Section Separator --- Answer these questions to find out what financial support you could get. There are different support options if you are an employer, are self-employed or a sole trader, or if you are an employee. --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment was available for businesses, including self-employed people, to help pay their employees who could not work from home while they waited for a COVID-19 PCR test result. It was available between 9 February 2021 and 17 October 2022. Applications for the Short-Term Absence Payment have closed. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment | Work and Income (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you cannot work from home while you are self-isolating, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer needs to apply for you. Y ou can also apply if you are self-employed. You may also be eligible for the scheme if you or someone you care for is at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Your employer can get $600 per week if you work full time, and $359 per week if you work part time to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme | Work and Income (external link) Extra help while you are self-isolating | Work and Income (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job or you cannot work at the moment, you may be able to get help from Work and Income. Use the online tool to find out what type of help you may qualify for. Support if you are not working | Work and Income (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job, cannot work or are working fewer hours, you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent, board, or the cost of owning a home power, gas, heating or water bills medical and dental costs. You do not need to be on a benefit to get financial support. Help for you and your whānau during COVID-19 | Work and Income (external link) Call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 or use their online calculator to check what you might be eligible for. Check what you might get | Ministry of Social Development (MSD) (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your employment has been affected and you are experiencing financial hardship, or you need help getting home, your embassy or consulate may be able to help. People on a temporary visa are not eligible for help from Work and Income. Contact details of your country's embassy, consulate or high commission (external link) (external link) If you are an international student and are experiencing financial hardship, we recommend you speak to your education provider or student association. They may be able to offer you free budgeting advice, or tell you about funds that are available.
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 If you have COVID-19 you need to self-isolate for 7 days. Find out what else you need to do. --- Section Separator --- Find detailed advice about managing your symptoms and what to do while you are self-isolating on the Ministry of Health's COVID-19 Health Hub. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have taken a rapid antigen test (RAT), report your positive result online or by calling the helpline. Online: My Covid Record (external link) Call: 0800 222 478 (choose option 3) How to report your RAT result The Ministry of Health will then send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers to confirm your positive result. This has information about self-isolation, support options, and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you had a PCR test, you will get a text message with your result. If your employer asks to see proof that you must isolate, you can use this text message. You do not need a medical certificate from a doctor. --- Section Separator --- You must self-isolate for 7 days while you recover. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Create your household isolation and testing timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Your Household Contacts do not need to isolate. They should test daily for 5 days. If they test positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. Advice for your Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- You must stay at home and avoid contact with other people in your household. Find out what to do when self-isolating, including permitted reasons to leave self-isolation, and how to ventilate your home. How to self-isolate Ventilation and COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Complete the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing form using your 6-digit access code. (You can find this code in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers .) For most people, the form will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and do not complete the form within 12 hours, you will get a phone call. Contact tracing form user guides | Ministry of Health (external link) You also need to tell your close contacts you have COVID-19. This includes the people you live with, and your workplace or school. Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19 — especially if they are fully vaccinated and boosted — are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to recover at home. Symptoms for COVID-19 tend to show 2 to 5 days after a person has been infected but can take up to 14 days. Omicron causes similar symptoms to other variants. Advice on managing your COVID-19 symptoms | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) If you need advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If your symptoms get worse or you need urgent medical care, call your local healthcare provider or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 If you or the person you are caring for develops difficulty breathing, severe chest pain, fainting or becomes unconscious, call 111 immediately. Medicines to treat COVID-19 are available for people who are at risk of developing serious illness and for some people who have tested positive for COVID-19. Medicines to treat COVID-19 You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs for up to 6 weeks from the first day you develop symptoms or the date of your first positive test, whichever came first. This includes 1 follow-up check with your healthcare provider if required during those 6 weeks, once your acute episode of COVID-19 is over. After you have had the follow-up check, if you required one, and you no longer have acute COVID-19, you will then need to pay for your future visits to your doctor and prescription dispensing fees, just as you would for other medical conditions, even if it is within the 6-week period. If you are a visitor to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay, you may need to pay for any healthcare costs. --- Section Separator --- You can end your self-isolation 7 days after your symptoms started or you tested positive, whichever came first. You do not need to wait for an official message to leave self-isolation. You may receive a text message confirming your self-isolation period has ended. You do not need a negative RAT result to return to work or school. Some people can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can co-ordinate extra support for you if you need it. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available.
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 Medicines to treat COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- People with a high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are eligible for treatment with COVID-19 antiviral medicines. These medicines reduce the amount of virus in your body, so you do not get as sick and you are less likely to go to hospital. You can get free antiviral medicines if you: have COVID-19 and symptoms or you are a Household Contact and have symptoms, and became sick within the last 5 days, and are eligible for the medicine. Eligible people include: Māori or Pacific people aged 50 or over everyone aged 65 or over anyone aged 50 or over with fewer than 2 COVID-19 vaccinations anyone with a severely weakened immune system anyone with Down syndrome anyone with sickle cell disease anyone who has previously been in critical high dependency hospital care from COVID-19 anyone with 3 or more high-risk medical conditions. COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat eligible people with COVID-19 at home. You must start taking COVID-19 medicines within the first 5 days of getting symptoms. When taken early in your COVID-19 illness, antivirals can help you stay out of hospital. These medicines are free for eligible people within 5 days of their symptoms starting. Talk to your doctor or nurse by phone to see if getting a prescription is right for you. They will help you work out if you are eligible for COVID-19 medicine. It will depend on several factors, including your age, ethnicity, other health conditions and vaccination status. Many pharmacists will be able to supply COVID-19 antivirals without a prescription if you test positive or are a Household Contact. The pharmacist will check your eligibility. Talk to your pharmacist or a registered nurse either immediately after you test positive or develop symptoms to see if the medicines are right for you. If you are at risk of becoming very unwell with COVID-19 you may be able to get a prescription before you get COVID-19. This means the pharmacist will have the prescription ready to use if you become unwell. If you test positive, you can then arrange to have the medicine delivered by your friends, whānau or the pharmacy. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will confirm that it is still safe for you to take COVID-19 medicines. You will not be able to get the medicine until you test positive for COVID-19. Talk to your doctor or nurse to see if getting a prescription before you get unwell is right for you. Pharmacies supplying antivirals can be found on Healthpoint. You will need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) You will not need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you do not need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days and cannot leave your home. If you are eligible for medicines, arrange to have them delivered by friends, whānau or by other means. Some pharmacies can deliver the medicine. How to self-isolate Some other medicines are available to treat COVID-19 but are only given in hospital. Pharmac, the agency which decides what medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand, has more information on its website. New Zealand’s COVID-19 treatments portfolio | Pharmac (external link) If you are severely immunocompromised you may be eligible for Evusheld. Evusheld is a preventative medicine and can help reduce severe illness and hospitalisation from COVID-19. It is available for severely immunocompromised people 12 years old and over. You can get the 2 injections of Evusheld before you get COVID-19, or at least 2 weeks after your recovery. Talk to your doctor or health professional about whether this medicine is right for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 Eligibility criteria for Evusheld | Pharmac (external link) New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Translations --- Section Separator --- People with a high risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are eligible for treatment with COVID-19 antiviral medicines. These medicines reduce the amount of virus in your body, so you do not get as sick and you are less likely to go to hospital. You can get free antiviral medicines if you: have COVID-19 and symptoms or you are a Household Contact and have symptoms, and became sick within the last 5 days, and are eligible for the medicine. Eligible people include: Māori or Pacific people aged 50 or over everyone aged 65 or over anyone aged 50 or over with fewer than 2 COVID-19 vaccinations anyone with a severely weakened immune system anyone with Down syndrome anyone with sickle cell disease anyone who has previously been in critical high dependency hospital care from COVID-19 anyone with 3 or more high-risk medical conditions. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 antiviral medicines are available to treat eligible people with COVID-19 at home. You must start taking COVID-19 medicines within the first 5 days of getting symptoms. When taken early in your COVID-19 illness, antivirals can help you stay out of hospital. These medicines are free for eligible people within 5 days of their symptoms starting. --- Section Separator --- Talk to your doctor or nurse by phone to see if getting a prescription is right for you. They will help you work out if you are eligible for COVID-19 medicine. It will depend on several factors, including your age, ethnicity, other health conditions and vaccination status. Many pharmacists will be able to supply COVID-19 antivirals without a prescription if you test positive or are a Household Contact. The pharmacist will check your eligibility. Talk to your pharmacist or a registered nurse either immediately after you test positive or develop symptoms to see if the medicines are right for you. If you are at risk of becoming very unwell with COVID-19 you may be able to get a prescription before you get COVID-19. This means the pharmacist will have the prescription ready to use if you become unwell. If you test positive, you can then arrange to have the medicine delivered by your friends, whānau or the pharmacy. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist will confirm that it is still safe for you to take COVID-19 medicines. You will not be able to get the medicine until you test positive for COVID-19. Talk to your doctor or nurse to see if getting a prescription before you get unwell is right for you. Pharmacies supplying antivirals can be found on Healthpoint. You will need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) You will not need a prescription at these pharmacies: Pharmacies where you do not need a prescription | Healthpoint (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 you must self-isolate for 7 days and cannot leave your home. If you are eligible for medicines, arrange to have them delivered by friends, whānau or by other means. Some pharmacies can deliver the medicine. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- Some other medicines are available to treat COVID-19 but are only given in hospital. Pharmac, the agency which decides what medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand, has more information on its website. New Zealand’s COVID-19 treatments portfolio | Pharmac (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are severely immunocompromised you may be eligible for Evusheld. Evusheld is a preventative medicine and can help reduce severe illness and hospitalisation from COVID-19. It is available for severely immunocompromised people 12 years old and over. You can get the 2 injections of Evusheld before you get COVID-19, or at least 2 weeks after your recovery. Talk to your doctor or health professional about whether this medicine is right for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 Eligibility criteria for Evusheld | Pharmac (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Translations --- Section Separator --- Medicines to treat COVID-19 How to self-isolate Help when you are self-isolating If you get COVID-19 while travelling
