People aged 18 and over can now get a booster 4 months after their second dose. You can go to a walk-in vaccination centre today. Online bookings available from 17 January. What you need to know Stay safe — have a travel plan My Vaccine Pass Child vaccinations Locations of interest Life under the traffic lights Latest case numbers Posters for your business Traffic light guidance for businesses Travel advice for Auckland Free rapid antigen tests Changes to travel requirements to enter NZ --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. A reassessment of the risk posed by the drum and bass festival in Tauranga’s Wharepai Domain on 3 January has been downgraded. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- Download the COVID-19 Protection Framework summary [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Search for your local traffic light setting. Black lines indicate the boundary around Auckland, which includes Port Waikato. The next review will be in the week of 17 January 2022. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
Home About our COVID-19 response Independent Advisory Groups Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. Sir David Skegg, Chair Associate Prof Nikki Turner, Member Prof Philip Hill, Member Dr Maia Brewerton, Member Prof David Murdoch, Member Dr Ella Iosua, Member Rodney Jones, Special Advisor Professor Shaun Hendy, Special Advisor Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group. The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. Read Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] Documents from Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group are proactively released to the public. View proactive releases --- Section Separator --- The purpose of the group is to provide independent advice on our ongoing COVID-19 response informed by their expertise in epidemiology, infectious diseases, public health, and modelling. --- Section Separator --- Sir David Skegg, Chair Associate Prof Nikki Turner, Member Prof Philip Hill, Member Dr Maia Brewerton, Member Prof David Murdoch, Member Dr Ella Iosua, Member Rodney Jones, Special Advisor Professor Shaun Hendy, Special Advisor Dr Ian Town is an Observer of the Group. --- Section Separator --- The Terms of Reference outline the purpose and scope of the Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group. Read Terms of Reference [PDF, 159 KB] --- Section Separator --- Documents from Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group are proactively released to the public. View proactive releases --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group Strategic COVID-19 Public Health Advisory Group Community Panel
How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Access Covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives. --- Section Separator --- How and when we collect personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. Our terms of use when using this website, and our copyright statement. By viewing and using this site, you agree to these terms of use. Find services and contact information for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Access Covid19.govt.nz for free from most mobiles. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. This website is regularly archived. Here's how to access those archives.
Home About this site Archive --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- You can access previous versions of this website through external public archives: Covid19.govt.nz at New Zealand Web Archive (external link) Covid19.govt.nz at Internet Archive’s Wayback Machine (external link) When accessing these archives it is important to note that the information is a snapshot of what previously existed — it may be out of date. --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact us Wellbeing helplines and support Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home About this site Contact us Find contact information for the COVID-19 group at the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. I am looking for... Communication and language support COVID-19 support Financial support Report a breach Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- Find guidance on how to make an Official Information Request on the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet website: How to make an Official Information Act request Find information and advice translated into different languages: Translations Find information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs: Alternate formats Immigration New Zealand can answer questions about travel eligibility and visa categories. Contact Immigration NZ | immigration.govt.nz Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz If you run or own a business, you will need to contact the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment about your question. Email: info@business.govt.nz Call: 0800 424 946 We have a selection of posters available for in the traffic light settings available on this website. You can also get your QR code poster. Download posters Get your QR code poster All our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, can be viewed and download through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email: covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz You will need to contact the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. You can send a query through an online form on the Employment website or call them. Online form | employment.govt.nz Call: 0800 20 90 20 Call 111 immediately. If you have COVID-19, tell them when you ring. You need to contact your care co-ordinator or call Healthline. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19response@health.govt.nz There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a participating vaccination site. How to get your My Vaccine Pass There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact MIQ. You can find contact details on their website. Contact us | miq.govt.nz If you have a health concern after your vaccination, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor. You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19vaccine@health.govt.nz Visit the Work and Income website for urgent financial support and ongoing needs. You can apply for a main benefit online and check your eligibility for food assistance. www.workandincome.govt.nz (external link) 0800 559 009 (MSD General Line) 0800 552 002 (Seniors 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Students) In MyMSD you can check your payments, tell MSD about changes and apply for a benefit or NZ Super: Use MyMSD You can also use the COVID-19 financial support tool on this website to see what support is available to you. Use the financial support tool If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: traffic light settings managed isolation requirements. Report a breach online | police.govt.nz Face coverings If someone is not wearing a face covering, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face coverings guidance and requirements How to report false or misleading information that you see can be found on this website. Report false or misleading information Contact the COVID-19 media team: Email: covid19media@dpmc.govt.nz The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. NZ COVID Tracer app There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Get your QR code poster If you have questions or feedback about the app, QR code posters or any problems using them, you will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Call 0800 800 606 You must enable JavaScript to submit this form --- Section Separator --- Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. --- Section Separator --- If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach --- Section Separator --- You can contact the COVID-19 Group by using our online form above or sending a letter to us. If you are sending us feedback about Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage that you have feedback about. Postal address: COVID-19 Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand
Home About this site Privacy --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. There is no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. --- Section Separator --- There is no need to disclose personal information. You can use the site — including completing user research tasks — without disclosing any personal information. --- Section Separator --- We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. --- Section Separator --- We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact us Wellbeing helplines and support Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home About this site Terms of use --- Section Separator --- Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. You cannot adapt the content. CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence terms (external link) In addition to the above: The content may only be used for the purpose of raising awareness of COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccinations, and communicating the related rules, regulations, guidelines and safety information. The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use (including the “Purpose of use” section above). Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use (including the “Purpose of use” section above). To the extent that the above terms conflicts with the Creative Commons CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence, the above terms will take precedence. The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (DPMC) may remove access to the content at any time, and contact users to let them know if the content is out of date. Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Welcome to covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’), a website operated by the COVID-19 Group, a business unit of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. These terms apply to the entire contents of the site, to any web feeds produced by the site, and to any feedback or submissions provided through the site. By viewing and using the site, you will be deemed to have agreed to these Terms of use. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government disclaims and excludes all liability for any claim, loss, demand or damages of any kind whatsoever (including for negligence) arising out of or in connection with the use of either this website or the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. If you need professional advice, including advice about your legal obligations, you should see a professional adviser and not rely on the information, content or materials included on this site or on any website we link to. Links to third-party websites should not be taken as endorsement or recommendation of those sites or products offered on those sites. When visiting other websites, please refer to the terms and conditions of use, privacy and copyright policies of those sites. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government makes no warranty or representation, express or implied, as to continuity of service. It reserves the right to suspend, terminate or otherwise alter access to some or all of the site’s services at any time and without notice. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Government may revise these Terms of use at any time. Any such revisions take effect when this page is published. --- Section Separator --- Unless indicated otherwise, all content on Covid19.govt.nz is licensed under the CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence. This is a creative commons licence that allows the user to re-use the content for non-commercial purposes and with proper attribution. This means you can re-use the content for non-commercial purposes, but must make it clear it comes from the Covid19.govt.nz website and is owned by the Crown. You cannot adapt the content. CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence terms (external link) In addition to the above: The content may only be used for the purpose of raising awareness of COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccinations, and communicating the related rules, regulations, guidelines and safety information. The New Zealand Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks on the site are protected by law. You must not copy or use any logo, emblem, or trade mark without express permission and compliance with applicable laws. We give you express permission to use and copy the Government logo and all other logos, emblems, and trade marks only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use (including the “Purpose of use” section above). Neither the New Zealand Government emblem nor the New Zealand Government logo may be used in any way which infringes any provision of the Flags, Emblems, and Names Protection Act 1981 or would infringe such provision if the relevant use occurred within New Zealand. Attribution to the New Zealand Government should be in written form and not by reproduction of any emblem or the New Zealand Government logo. Copyright in photographs on the site is not owned or licensed to you by the Crown. Unless otherwise stated in relation to specific photographs or icons, you cannot copy, distribute or adapt any photograph without the agreement of the copyright owner. Where we are the copyright owner, we give you express permission to use and copy photographs only to the extent that they are incorporated into the content, and where the content is used in accordance with these Terms of Use (including the “Purpose of use” section above). To the extent that the above terms conflicts with the Creative Commons CC BY-NC-ND 4.0 International Licence, the above terms will take precedence. The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (DPMC) may remove access to the content at any time, and contact users to let them know if the content is out of date. --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on major mobile networks can access this website without using data. Some networks and some parts of the website are not covered by this. Details and exceptions to cost-free use of this website --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact us Wellbeing helplines and support Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home About this site Use this website for free from your mobile --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz We have removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Warehouse Mobile operating on the 2Degrees network. Digital Island, CallPlus/Slingshot, Compass operating on the Spark network. Black+White, Orcon, M2 operating on the Vodafone network. Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) --- Section Separator --- Any mobile phone, smartphone or digital device that can access the internet on the Spark, Vodafone, 2degrees or Skinny mobile networks can access this website for free, or at little cost. Even if you do not have any data on your device, you can use our website. --- Section Separator --- Make sure your mobile data is turned on, then enter the address of this website — covid19.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- We have removed the cost wherever possible, but we use some website add-ons that use a small amount of your data, if you have some. In most cases, this will be less than a cent of your data allowance per visit. If you access YouTube videos or other external content hosted on this website, you will be charged your usual mobile data rates. Wherever possible, we will make it clear when a link will take you to an external website. --- Section Separator --- If your mobile data provider is a reseller of data from another telecommunications company, unfortunately, you will have to pay regular costs. These providers are not covered: Warehouse Mobile operating on the 2Degrees network. Digital Island, CallPlus/Slingshot, Compass operating on the Spark network. Black+White, Orcon, M2 operating on the Vodafone network. --- Section Separator --- Using this website for free is part of the Sponsored Data initiative, and is paid for by the Ministry of Health. How you can access health information for free through the Sponsored Data initiative (external link) --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact us Wellbeing helplines and support Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home About this site Wellbeing helplines and support Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. I am looking for... Contact us Communication and language support COVID-19 support Financial support --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Healthline kaimahi support people with information and advice about COVID-19. This includes clinical advice about symptoms and non-clinical advice about testing locations. Call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Interpreter services are available. --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help.
Home COVID-19 vaccines You can get a booster now if you are 18 or over and it has been 6 months since your second dose. You might be interested in My Vaccine Pass Child vaccinations My Covid Record Temporary exemption letters Side effects Your vaccine questions answered International travel vaccination certificates Support and information for disabled people --- Section Separator --- Talk to the COVID Vaccination Healthline 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. Call 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- Find out about how to book your vaccination, walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres, booster doses, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. Find information about COVID-19 vaccination for businesses and workers, including border and MIQ workers. Discover NZ Vaccine Facts, learn about vaccine development, safety and effectiveness, and find resources to download and share. --- Section Separator --- Last updated 10 January 2022 at 1:15 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. COVID (external link) (external link) COVID-19 vaccination rates around New Zealand COVID-19 vaccination uptake rates within Māori communities (external link) (external link) COVID-19 vaccination uptake rates within Māori communities (external link) (external link) COVID-19 vaccination uptake rates within Pacific communities (external link) COVID-19 vaccination uptake rates within Pacific communities (external link) 95% Eligible population with 1 dose 95% Eligible population with 1 dose 92% Eligible population with 2 doses 92% Eligible population with 2 doses 3,980,957 First doses administered 3,980,957 First doses administered 3,874,700 Second doses administered 3,874,700 Second doses administered --- Section Separator --- Episode 1: COVID-19 and why vaccinations are important Episode 2: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Episode 3: What is an mRNA vaccine? Episode 4: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? Episode 5: Are vaccines safe? Episode 6: What are the benefits of vaccination? Episode 7: How to get a vaccine and are there side effects? Episode 8: What else we can do to protect ourselves and others? --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination status certificates My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- Today, some people with errors in their vaccination record are being issued temporary exemption letters that are valid until Wednesday 22 December while they wait for a My Vaccine Pass. If you were vaccinated overseas, and submitted your information by 14 December 2021, you will be issued with an exemption letter valid until 11:59pm 17 January 2022 while you wait for a My Vaccine Pass. Businesses that are checking My Vaccine Passes will know to accept these official exemption letters. There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a participating vaccination site. The quickest way to get a pass is through the website My Covid Record. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, you can get your pass over the phone or at a participating vaccination site. A National Health Index (NHI) number is a unique number that is given to each person using health and disability support services in New Zealand. You can find your NHI number on: a prescription or prescription receipt, a prescription medicine label a hospital letter an x-ray or test result your patient portal (ManageMyHealth). Once your pass has been emailed to you, it gives you the option to save it to your phone: For Apple, click 'Add to Apple Wallet' For Android, click 'Save to phone' Another way to save the pass to your phone is to take a screenshot of the QR code when you open the PDF in your email. You can save this to your phone. Make sure it is not blurry or pixelated and there is blank space around the edges. It is helpful if your name can be seen in the screenshot. Android screenshot instructions (external link) iPhone screenshot instructions (external link) If you would prefer to have a physical copy of your pass, download and print the PDF attachment in the email. When printing, use the highest quality setting on your printer to ensure the QR code is clear so it can be scanned easily when entering venues. Save your pass to your iPhone Save your pass to your Android phone Some Android users have had problems with the shortcut for My Vaccine Pass disappearing from their phones. Google has fixed the issue – you can expect an update on your phone in the next week. You can still access your pass via your Google Pay app. My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. It will allow you to access certain events and venues operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic light system). Learn about the traffic light system You can request a My Vaccine Pass if you are aged 12 or over and: have had 2 doses of the Pfizer or AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand, or been vaccinated overseas with an approved vaccine, or have a medical exemption. Your My Vaccine Pass will include your name, date of birth and a QR code. You can save it on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. It will expire 6 months from the date of issue, or on 1 June 2022, whichever comes sooner. We have set an expiry date to allow flexibility in how we respond to the changing nature of the pandemic. People under the age of 12 years and 3 months are not required to show proof of vaccination. View a larger image of My Vaccine Pass example [PNG, 3.3 MB] From Friday 3 December you may need to use My Vaccine Pass to enter events and venues as required by the traffic light system. You may need to show it in a range of public settings. These could include: events hospitality close-proximity businesses, such as hairdressers and gyms sport faith-based gatherings. Businesses may scan the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. This app will confirm your vaccination status for the business. You may also be asked to show ID. It will not store your data or show any information other than your name and date of birth. Businesses cannot accept a purple vaccination card or vaccination confirmation letter as proof of your vaccination status. You will not need to show proof of vaccination to access basic needs services like: supermarkets pharmacies health and disability services petrol stations public transport — for example, buses, trains and commuter ferries schools and early learning service providers housing and housing support services. If you are unable to get the COVID-19 vaccine for medical reasons, there is an exemption process to get your My Vaccine Pass. You will need to talk to your doctor and they will apply on your behalf. Find out more about exemptions and certificates | health.govt.nz (external link) My Vaccine Pass cannot be used for overseas travel. If you are going to another country, you will need to request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. International Travel Vaccination Certificates If were vaccinated overseas, you must have received one of the following 8 accepted COVID-19 vaccines to get a My Vaccine Pass: Pfizer/BioNTech Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). Your vaccination record must be added to New Zealand's COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). How to add your vaccination record to the CIR | health.govt.nz (external link) You can request your My Vaccine Pass once you have received acknowledgement your record has been added. The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that businesses and organisations can use to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and keep their community safe. At certain traffic light settings, businesses and organisations are encouraged to use the app to check customers' My Vaccine Pass. Requirements will depend on the sector and the choices the business or organisation has made about how they will operate under the traffic light system. If you need technical help with the NZ Pass Verifier app, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 . When a business or organisation uses the app to scan your My Vaccine Pass, it will show a green tick — this confirms it is a valid pass. It also shows your name and date of birth. The verifier can request to see your ID to check it matches the details on the app. It is an offence for a business to sell the details from the My Vaccine Pass, or use the details for purposes outside the COVID-19 response. Any personal information collected — for example, that you have been verified — remains subject to the protections in the Privacy Act 2020. Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) NZ Pass Verifier — Terms of use and privacy policy | health.govt.nz (external link) Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry — version 1 [PDF, 115 KB] Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry — version 2 [PDF, 86 KB] Kia ora — Please have your vaccine pass ready [PDF, 116 KB] Vaccine pass required for entry [PDF, 86 KB] If you are unsure whether someone has a Ministry of Health issued medical exemption or is fully vaccinated, scan their My Vaccine Pass to check they meet the requirements to enter your premises. The NZ Pass Verifier app will show a green tick. The Ministry of Health is the only agency authorised to provide a medical exemption from getting vaccinated. A person who has a medical exemption can get a My Vaccine Pass, which when scanned will show a green tick — the same as all passes. A small number of people have a temporary exemption from the requirement to produce a My Vaccine Pass. The temporary exemption is a record of the individual’s request for assistance and has a unique identifier. It can be shown to businesses and organisations that require a My Vaccine Pass. It is valid until 11:59pm on 14 December 2021. Interim solution for people waiting for their My Vaccine Pass Exemptions from mandatory vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) Find advice on checking My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) You may receive a purple vaccination card at your first appointment. This is not official proof of your vaccination — it is to remind you when your second appointment is. --- Section Separator --- Today, some people with errors in their vaccination record are being issued temporary exemption letters that are valid until Wednesday 22 December while they wait for a My Vaccine Pass. If you were vaccinated overseas, and submitted your information by 14 December 2021, you will be issued with an exemption letter valid until 11:59pm 17 January 2022 while you wait for a My Vaccine Pass. Businesses that are checking My Vaccine Passes will know to accept these official exemption letters. --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a participating vaccination site. The quickest way to get a pass is through the website My Covid Record. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, you can get your pass over the phone or at a participating vaccination site. --- Section Separator --- A National Health Index (NHI) number is a unique number that is given to each person using health and disability support services in New Zealand. You can find your NHI number on: a prescription or prescription receipt, a prescription medicine label a hospital letter an x-ray or test result your patient portal (ManageMyHealth). --- Section Separator --- Once your pass has been emailed to you, it gives you the option to save it to your phone: For Apple, click 'Add to Apple Wallet' For Android, click 'Save to phone' Another way to save the pass to your phone is to take a screenshot of the QR code when you open the PDF in your email. You can save this to your phone. Make sure it is not blurry or pixelated and there is blank space around the edges. It is helpful if your name can be seen in the screenshot. Android screenshot instructions (external link) iPhone screenshot instructions (external link) If you would prefer to have a physical copy of your pass, download and print the PDF attachment in the email. When printing, use the highest quality setting on your printer to ensure the QR code is clear so it can be scanned easily when entering venues. --- Section Separator --- Save your pass to your iPhone Save your pass to your Android phone --- Section Separator --- Some Android users have had problems with the shortcut for My Vaccine Pass disappearing from their phones. Google has fixed the issue – you can expect an update on your phone in the next week. You can still access your pass via your Google Pay app. --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. It will allow you to access certain events and venues operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic light system). Learn about the traffic light system You can request a My Vaccine Pass if you are aged 12 or over and: have had 2 doses of the Pfizer or AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand, or been vaccinated overseas with an approved vaccine, or have a medical exemption. Your My Vaccine Pass will include your name, date of birth and a QR code. You can save it on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. It will expire 6 months from the date of issue, or on 1 June 2022, whichever comes sooner. We have set an expiry date to allow flexibility in how we respond to the changing nature of the pandemic. People under the age of 12 years and 3 months are not required to show proof of vaccination. View a larger image of My Vaccine Pass example [PNG, 3.3 MB] From Friday 3 December you may need to use My Vaccine Pass to enter events and venues as required by the traffic light system. You may need to show it in a range of public settings. These could include: events hospitality close-proximity businesses, such as hairdressers and gyms sport faith-based gatherings. Businesses may scan the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. This app will confirm your vaccination status for the business. You may also be asked to show ID. It will not store your data or show any information other than your name and date of birth. Businesses cannot accept a purple vaccination card or vaccination confirmation letter as proof of your vaccination status. You will not need to show proof of vaccination to access basic needs services like: supermarkets pharmacies health and disability services petrol stations public transport — for example, buses, trains and commuter ferries schools and early learning service providers housing and housing support services. If you are unable to get the COVID-19 vaccine for medical reasons, there is an exemption process to get your My Vaccine Pass. You will need to talk to your doctor and they will apply on your behalf. Find out more about exemptions and certificates | health.govt.nz (external link) My Vaccine Pass cannot be used for overseas travel. If you are going to another country, you will need to request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. International Travel Vaccination Certificates --- Section Separator --- If were vaccinated overseas, you must have received one of the following 8 accepted COVID-19 vaccines to get a My Vaccine Pass: Pfizer/BioNTech Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). Your vaccination record must be added to New Zealand's COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). How to add your vaccination record to the CIR | health.govt.nz (external link) You can request your My Vaccine Pass once you have received acknowledgement your record has been added. --- Section Separator --- The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that businesses and organisations can use to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and keep their community safe. At certain traffic light settings, businesses and organisations are encouraged to use the app to check customers' My Vaccine Pass. Requirements will depend on the sector and the choices the business or organisation has made about how they will operate under the traffic light system. If you need technical help with the NZ Pass Verifier app, call the Ministry of Health on 0800 800 606 . When a business or organisation uses the app to scan your My Vaccine Pass, it will show a green tick — this confirms it is a valid pass. It also shows your name and date of birth. The verifier can request to see your ID to check it matches the details on the app. It is an offence for a business to sell the details from the My Vaccine Pass, or use the details for purposes outside the COVID-19 response. Any personal information collected — for example, that you have been verified — remains subject to the protections in the Privacy Act 2020. Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) NZ Pass Verifier — Terms of use and privacy policy | health.govt.nz (external link) Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry — version 1 [PDF, 115 KB] Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry — version 2 [PDF, 86 KB] Kia ora — Please have your vaccine pass ready [PDF, 116 KB] Vaccine pass required for entry [PDF, 86 KB] --- Section Separator --- If you are unsure whether someone has a Ministry of Health issued medical exemption or is fully vaccinated, scan their My Vaccine Pass to check they meet the requirements to enter your premises. The NZ Pass Verifier app will show a green tick. The Ministry of Health is the only agency authorised to provide a medical exemption from getting vaccinated. A person who has a medical exemption can get a My Vaccine Pass, which when scanned will show a green tick — the same as all passes. A small number of people have a temporary exemption from the requirement to produce a My Vaccine Pass. The temporary exemption is a record of the individual’s request for assistance and has a unique identifier. It can be shown to businesses and organisations that require a My Vaccine Pass. It is valid until 11:59pm on 14 December 2021. Interim solution for people waiting for their My Vaccine Pass Exemptions from mandatory vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) Find advice on checking My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may receive a purple vaccination card at your first appointment. This is not official proof of your vaccination — it is to remind you when your second appointment is. --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificate How to use My Covid Record
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines. --- Section Separator --- We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out how COVID-19 vaccines were developed, how we know they are effective, and how the Pfizer vaccine works. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. Children aged 5 to 11 will be able to get a COVID-19 vaccination from 17 January. Young people aged 12 to 15 can get vaccinated now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out how COVID-19 vaccines were developed, how we know they are effective, and how the Pfizer vaccine works. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. Children aged 5 to 11 will be able to get a COVID-19 vaccination from 17 January. Young people aged 12 to 15 can get vaccinated now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Vaccination and children Children aged 5 to 11 will be able to get a COVID-19 vaccination from 17 January. Young people aged 12 to 15 can get vaccinated now. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children and young people who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and require hospitalisation. Learn more about the effects of COVID-19 Like adults, if your tamariki or rangatahi are infected with the COVID-19 virus they may transmit the virus to other people. The Ministry of Health recommends vaccinations for children and young people to keep them safe and help protect your whānau and community from COVID-19. Government confirms COVID-19 vaccinations to protect tamariki --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is highly effective. If children and young adults who have been vaccinated do develop COVID-19, they are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. For children aged 5 to 11, clinical trial results showed the Pfizer vaccine was 90.7% effective against getting COVID-19 symptoms, and no participants developed severe COVID-19. Pfizer has reported 100% efficacy against symptomatic COVID-19 infection in the 12 to 15-year-old age group — with a higher antibody response than was seen in the 16 to 25-year-old age group. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered --- Section Separator --- Tamariki aged 5 to 11 will be able to get a COVID-19 vaccination from 17 January 2022. They will receive a children’s version of the Pfizer vaccine, with a lower dose and smaller volume. The lower dose was chosen based on a trial that showed the lower dose was safe and had few side effects in this age group. If a child has their second vaccination after they have turned 12, they should still complete their vaccination course with the paediatric formulation of the Pfizer vaccine. Children are not eligible for the AstraZeneca vaccine. To be fully protected, children need 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine. We recommend the first and second dose are at least 8 weeks apart. The interval can be shortened to a minimum of 21 days if needed – for example, if the child is starting significant immunosuppression treatment. Children are not eligible for booster vaccinations. Children in this age group must have a parent, caregiver or legal guardian accompany them to their appointment and provide consent for them to be vaccinated. At the appointment, both the adult and child can ask as many questions as they like. Protecting your tamariki from COVID-19 [PDF, 646 KB] --- Section Separator --- Young people aged 12 to 15 are eligible for a full dose of the Pfizer vaccine. People under the age of 18 are not eligible to get the AstraZeneca vaccine. To be fully protected, 12 to 15-year-olds need 2 doses of the vaccine, with a gap of 3 weeks or more between the first and second dose. People under the age of 18 are not eligible for booster vaccinations. While young people aged 12 and over have the right to give their own consent, we recommend they discuss vaccination with their parents, whānau or a trusted support person. A health professional will also discuss the vaccine with them before they get vaccinated and answer any questions they have. If they have a good understanding, they can say yes or no to getting the vaccine. If they would prefer, a parent or caregiver can provide consent instead. Informed consent for young people aged 12 to 15 policy statement [PDF, 174 KB] --- Section Separator --- How immunising children against COVID-19 can protect your whakapapa How immunising tamariki against COVID-19 helps protect your community Why it's important to vaccinate tamariki against COVID-19 Why it's important for disabled tamariki to get the COVID-19 vaccine Explaining the COVID-19 vaccine to children How to talk with your tamariki about the COVID-19 vaccine Victoria and Lila's story: Getting my kids vaccinated --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is responsible for approving the use of all medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. They only approve a vaccine in Aotearoa once they are satisfied it has met strict standards for safety, efficacy and quality. The trials in 5 to 11-year-olds with a paediatric (child) dose of the Pfizer showed the vaccine was safe, and side effects were similar to those observed with the full dose in 12 to 15-year-olds. The side effects were generally mild. Millions of people aged 12 to 15 have now been vaccinated around the world, and no additional safety concerns have been raised. Research and data on vaccinating young people | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. These side effects are generally mild and should only last 1 or 2 days. The most common side effects are: a sore arm from your injection — you can put a cold cloth or ice pack on it to feel better a headache feeling tired feeling feverish or sweaty nausea aching muscles. After vaccination they will need to stay for at least 15 minutes so that a health professional can monitor for any immediate adverse reactions. Myocarditis is an inflammation of the heart muscle and it can be mild or serious. It is usually caused by viruses, such as COVID-19, but it is also a very rare side effect of the Pfizer vaccine, especially in adolescents and young males. Myocarditis was not identified as a side effect of the Pfizer vaccine in the 5 to 11-year-old age group in trials, however it is important to be aware of the symptoms for all ages who are vaccinated. Symptoms of myocarditis linked to the Pfizer vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first week after having the vaccine. If anyone gets these symptoms after vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in their chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching their breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is ‘skipping beats’. If the child or young person experiences any of these symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, they should see a doctor. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about their health, call 111 , and make sure you tell them they have had a COVID-19 Pfizer vaccine. Learn more about side effects --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, there is a risk of an allergic response after this vaccine. This is why everyone is asked to wait for at least 15 minutes after being vaccinated The Pfizer vaccine is safe for people with food allergies. Unlike some other vaccines, there is no food, gelatin or latex in the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine, and it is not grown in eggs. The only reason that someone may not be able to have this vaccine due to allergy is if they have had a severe allergic response (anaphylaxis) to a previous dose of the Pfizer vaccine or an ingredient in the vaccine. If a child has a history of an immediate allergic reaction to other products, including food, medicines or other vaccines, they can still have this vaccine but are asked to stay a little longer (at least 30 minutes) for monitoring. Vaccinators are trained to recognise these symptoms and have the appropriate equipment to treat people on site. --- Section Separator --- Everyone aged 12 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. Get your COVID-19 vaccination From 17 January 2022, parents or caregivers of 5 to 11-year-olds can: go to a walk-in vaccination centre with their tamariki book online through Book My Vaccine to get immunised with their usual health provider, hauora, or general practice. If you want to book for more than 1 child or you are unable to book online, call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week) and we will make the booking for you and answer any questions. Interpreters are available. While there are no plans for a school-based immunisation programme, schools are being considered as community vaccination sites. This will add capacity to the vaccination network and make it even easier for families to get vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Watch NZ Vaccine Facts Information for Māori communities | Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination | Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link)
We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Answering your questions Can I get a different vaccine? How was the vaccine made so quickly? Should I get vaccinated if I am pregnant? Does it work against variants? Is it safe for children? Will I get side effects? Will the vaccine stop transmission? --- Section Separator --- If you have another question, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines needed to be rolled out quickly, but that does not mean safety was compromised. The Pfizer vaccine we are using in New Zealand is held to the same high safety standards as any other medicine. COVID-19 vaccines are the most well-studied vaccines ever made. More than 50% of the world's population have had a COVID-19 vaccine, and more than 3 million people in Aotearoa have had their second Pfizer vaccine. This means we have lots of data to show the Pfizer vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety. --- Section Separator --- Dr Ashley Bloomfield on safety and development of the Pfizer vaccine Vaccinologist Helen Petousis-Harris on the safety of the vaccine How the vaccine was made, and its safety Sarah's story: Deciding to get the COVID-19 vaccine while pregnant Dr Nikki Turner on the safety of vaccines during pregnancy --- Section Separator --- Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. Studies show that 95% of people who have received 2 doses of the vaccine are protected against getting COVID-19 symptoms. --- Section Separator --- Dr Siouxsie Wiles explains how effective the vaccine is NZ Vaccine Facts: How the vaccine works against variants of COVID-19 Nanogirl explains why we need 2 doses of the vaccine How does the mRNA COVID-19 vaccine work? What are the benefits of vaccination? Mosi's story: Looking after his community --- Section Separator --- You might feel nervous about getting the vaccine, which is normal. A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm, and it will be over very fast. You will then need to stay for at least 15 minutes so we can make sure you do not have an immediate reaction. --- Section Separator --- What to expect if you have a needle phobia How to get a vaccine and are there side effects? Vaccinating residents from Rakiura Stewart Island Vaccinator Priscilla shares her story about vaccinating her community Dr Ashley Bloomfield shares what it is like to have a first vaccine Dr Nikki Turner shares how she is feeling after her second vaccine Vaccinator Marie shares how she makes people comfortable when they get their vaccine --- Section Separator --- Book now or visit one of the many places around New Zealand where you can get vaccinated without an appointment. How to get your vaccination
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination If you are pregnant or breastfeeding --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. It is recommended that pregnant people aged 18 and older receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy, at least 4 months after the primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Pregnant women should discuss the timing of their booster with their midwife, obstetrician or general practitioner. Get your vaccine booster Sarah, 25 weeks pregnant, on vaccine hesitancy Doctor Nikki on pregnancy, COVID-19, and the vaccine If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility — IMAC (external link) Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 458 KB] Side effects Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. It is recommended that pregnant people aged 18 and older receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy, at least 4 months after the primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Pregnant women should discuss the timing of their booster with their midwife, obstetrician or general practitioner. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Sarah, 25 weeks pregnant, on vaccine hesitancy Doctor Nikki on pregnancy, COVID-19, and the vaccine --- Section Separator --- If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility — IMAC (external link) --- Section Separator --- Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 458 KB] Side effects Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination and children If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination About the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. It does not contain any live, dead or deactivated viruses. It does not affect or interact with your DNA or genes. If you are aged 18 years or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The vaccine sends a set of instructions to teach your body how to fight the COVID-19 virus. With these instructions, your body learns to recognise the COVID-19 virus and use antibodies against it. Antibodies stop the virus from infecting your cells and help to kill it. If you come into contact with the COVID-19 virus in the future, your body will have the right tools to protect itself so you are less likely to get sick. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. We know the Pfizer vaccine works because it went through months of clinical testing with more than 40,000 people before it was approved for use. Clinical trials compared the results of a vaccinated group with another group who received a placebo (salt solution). In the clinical trials, it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. COVID-19: Vaccine clinical trials and testing – Ministry of Health (external link) Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) This is the first time scientists and governments from around the world have united to develop a vaccine. This global collaboration meant vaccines were developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Scientists had a head start because of all the research already carried out on related viruses. Governments, private companies and funding agencies have spent a lot of money. This means more could be done in a short space of time. Researchers and governments from different countries shared information and worked together. More people than usual volunteered for clinical trials. Some clinical trials were done at the same time, instead of one after another. Large manufacturing plants were built so more vaccines can be made faster than was possible before. Researchers could show the vaccine worked sooner than usual, because there are so many cases of COVID-19. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. Medsafe has given the Pfizer vaccine provisional approval (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It reviews data from ongoing clinical trials around the world, and reports from healthcare professionals and people who have been vaccinated. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects It is normal to have questions about taking a new medicine. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine. You can protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Learn how to spot misinformation and scams COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. It does not contain any live, dead or deactivated viruses. It does not affect or interact with your DNA or genes. If you are aged 18 years or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine --- Section Separator --- The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The vaccine sends a set of instructions to teach your body how to fight the COVID-19 virus. With these instructions, your body learns to recognise the COVID-19 virus and use antibodies against it. Antibodies stop the virus from infecting your cells and help to kill it. If you come into contact with the COVID-19 virus in the future, your body will have the right tools to protect itself so you are less likely to get sick. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. We know the Pfizer vaccine works because it went through months of clinical testing with more than 40,000 people before it was approved for use. Clinical trials compared the results of a vaccinated group with another group who received a placebo (salt solution). In the clinical trials, it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. COVID-19: Vaccine clinical trials and testing – Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) --- Section Separator --- This is the first time scientists and governments from around the world have united to develop a vaccine. This global collaboration meant vaccines were developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Scientists had a head start because of all the research already carried out on related viruses. Governments, private companies and funding agencies have spent a lot of money. This means more could be done in a short space of time. Researchers and governments from different countries shared information and worked together. More people than usual volunteered for clinical trials. Some clinical trials were done at the same time, instead of one after another. Large manufacturing plants were built so more vaccines can be made faster than was possible before. Researchers could show the vaccine worked sooner than usual, because there are so many cases of COVID-19. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. Medsafe has given the Pfizer vaccine provisional approval (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It reviews data from ongoing clinical trials around the world, and reports from healthcare professionals and people who have been vaccinated. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- It is normal to have questions about taking a new medicine. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine. You can protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Learn how to spot misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination and children If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Find out about how to book your vaccination, walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres, booster doses, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can get a vaccination at any traffic light setting. Whether you get the Pfizer vaccine or the AstraZeneca vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection from COVID-19. Learn about booster doses for COVID-19 vaccines, when you need one and how to get it. Find out how to change the details of a COVID-19 vaccination booking. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 12 and over can book their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can get a vaccination at any traffic light setting. Whether you get the Pfizer vaccine or the AstraZeneca vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection from COVID-19. Learn about booster doses for COVID-19 vaccines, when you need one and how to get it. Find out how to change the details of a COVID-19 vaccination booking. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments.
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Reschedule or cancel your appointment --- Section Separator --- To reschedule or cancel an appointment online, you will need your booking reference. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Click ‘Reschedule’. To choose a different vaccination centre, click ‘Change your location’. Choose a new date and time for your appointment. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Click ‘Cancel booking’. If you cannot find your booking reference, or you booked using a landline number, you can reschedule or cancel an appointment over the phone. Call the COVID Vaccine Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . --- Section Separator --- To reschedule or cancel an appointment online, you will need your booking reference. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Click ‘Reschedule’. To choose a different vaccination centre, click ‘Change your location’. Choose a new date and time for your appointment. Go to Book My Vaccine — Manage your appointments (external link) Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Click ‘Cancel booking’. If you cannot find your booking reference, or you booked using a landline number, you can reschedule or cancel an appointment over the phone. Call the COVID Vaccine Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 . --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your COVID-19 vaccination If you are aged 12 or over, you can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. What you need to know If you are pregnant or breastfeeding If you are immunocompromised Vaccination and children Booster doses Information for disabled people Change your appointment If you are unwell for your appointment --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Children aged 5 to 11 will be able to get a COVID-19 vaccination from 17 January 2022. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) It will take around 5 minutes to book your appointments. Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. Appointment availability map (external link) Book My Vaccine will show a list of vaccination centres where AstraZeneca is available. Not all sites will have it, as Pfizer is the main vaccine we are using in New Zealand. If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz --- Section Separator --- It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. 0800 28 29 26 It will take around 15 minutes to book your appointments. It is a good idea to have your NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. Find your NHI --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Note: Some vaccination centres may have reduced opening hours over the Christmas/New Year period. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to change the details of a COVID-19 vaccination booking. Reschedule or cancel your appointment --- Section Separator --- If you need to be reminded of the time, date or venue for your appointments, you can try the following. If you booked with your email address or mobile number, your appointment details will have been sent to you. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. If you know your booking reference, you can check your appointment details through Book My Vaccine. Enter your email address or phone number and your booking reference. Manage your appointments — Book My Vaccine (external link) They will be able to find your appointment details — you do not need to know your booking reference number. Call 0800 28 29 26 . --- Section Separator --- A National Health Index (NHI) number is a unique number that is given to each person using health and disability support services in New Zealand. You can find your NHI number on: a prescription or prescription receipt, a prescription medicine label a hospital letter an x-ray or test result your patient portal (ManageMyHealth).
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- People aged 18 and over can now get a booster 4 months after their second dose. From 5 January , they can get a booster from a walk-in vaccination centre or book an appointment by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). From 17 January , they can book an appointment to get a booster online through Book My Vaccine (external link) . You can get a booster dose now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 4 months since your second dose. The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for severely immunocompromised people. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster fourth dose 6 months after receiving their third primary dose. The Pfizer vaccine is the main vaccine being used in New Zealand for booster doses, even if you had a different vaccine for your earlier doses. If you are fully vaccinated, you remain well-protected from getting seriously ill if you do get COVID-19. Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 1024 KB] If you are pregnant, aged 18 years and older, it is recommended you receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect you and your baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy, at least 4 months after the primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). You should discuss the timing of a vaccine booster with your midwife, obstetrician or general practitioner. You do not need a booster dose to be 'fully vaccinated' or to get a vaccine pass or certificate. If you do get a booster dose, it will be added to My Covid Record and you can create another pass. For workers covered by the Mandatory Vaccinations Order, we expect changes to be confirmed in January 2022 about mandatory boosters. We will provide more information about this in January. More information about boosters | health.govt.nz (external link) If you had your COVID-19 vaccination overseas, you can get a Pfizer booster 4 months after you received your most recent vaccine. The Pfizer vaccine is the recommended booster dose regardless of what vaccine you had for earlier doses. From 5 January , they can get a booster from a walk-in vaccination centre or book an appointment by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). From 17 January , you can book an appointment to get a booster online through Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) . When you arrive for your booster, the date of your last vaccination will be checked in the COVID Immunisation Register (CIR) to ensure it has been at least 4 months since your last vaccination. Data from Pfizer shows that a booster dose is 95.6% effective against COVID-19, including the Delta variant. This is compared to those who did not receive a booster. Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. At this stage, there is no data available on how long you are protected against infection and disease following a booster dose. Health officials will continue to review information as it becomes available. Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. Side effects The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster dose 6 months after receiving their third primary dose. Third primary dose if you are immunocompromised What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- People aged 18 and over can now get a booster 4 months after their second dose. From 5 January , they can get a booster from a walk-in vaccination centre or book an appointment by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). From 17 January , they can book an appointment to get a booster online through Book My Vaccine (external link) . --- Section Separator --- You can get a booster dose now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 4 months since your second dose. The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for severely immunocompromised people. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster fourth dose 6 months after receiving their third primary dose. The Pfizer vaccine is the main vaccine being used in New Zealand for booster doses, even if you had a different vaccine for your earlier doses. If you are fully vaccinated, you remain well-protected from getting seriously ill if you do get COVID-19. Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 1024 KB] If you are pregnant, aged 18 years and older, it is recommended you receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect you and your baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy, at least 4 months after the primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). You should discuss the timing of a vaccine booster with your midwife, obstetrician or general practitioner. You do not need a booster dose to be 'fully vaccinated' or to get a vaccine pass or certificate. If you do get a booster dose, it will be added to My Covid Record and you can create another pass. For workers covered by the Mandatory Vaccinations Order, we expect changes to be confirmed in January 2022 about mandatory boosters. We will provide more information about this in January. More information about boosters | health.govt.nz (external link) If you had your COVID-19 vaccination overseas, you can get a Pfizer booster 4 months after you received your most recent vaccine. The Pfizer vaccine is the recommended booster dose regardless of what vaccine you had for earlier doses. --- Section Separator --- From 5 January , they can get a booster from a walk-in vaccination centre or book an appointment by calling the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). From 17 January , you can book an appointment to get a booster online through Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) . When you arrive for your booster, the date of your last vaccination will be checked in the COVID Immunisation Register (CIR) to ensure it has been at least 4 months since your last vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Data from Pfizer shows that a booster dose is 95.6% effective against COVID-19, including the Delta variant. This is compared to those who did not receive a booster. Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. At this stage, there is no data available on how long you are protected against infection and disease following a booster dose. Health officials will continue to review information as it becomes available. --- Section Separator --- Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. Side effects --- Section Separator --- The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster dose 6 months after receiving their third primary dose. Third primary dose if you are immunocompromised --- Section Separator --- What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your second dose --- Section Separator --- The standard gap between doses of the Pfizer vaccine is 3 weeks or more . The standard gap between doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine is 4 weeks or more . Follow the same steps as for booking your first dose, either online or over the phone. You will be asked if you have had your first dose, and which type of vaccine it was. Book through Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 You can also choose to get your second dose without booking an appointment at a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Booster doses are available for anyone in New Zealand aged 18 or over who completed their 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine at least 4 months ago. It does not matter if they received their earlier doses in New Zealand or overseas. Getting your booster dose Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised will be eligible to get a third primary dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. This third dose will be optional, but is recommended. This primary third dose is different to a booster dose for the general population. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster dose 6 months after receiving their third primary dose. Find more information on how to get a third primary dose Side effects --- Section Separator --- The standard gap between doses of the Pfizer vaccine is 3 weeks or more . The standard gap between doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine is 4 weeks or more . --- Section Separator --- Follow the same steps as for booking your first dose, either online or over the phone. You will be asked if you have had your first dose, and which type of vaccine it was. Book through Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 You can also choose to get your second dose without booking an appointment at a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. --- Section Separator --- Booster doses are available for anyone in New Zealand aged 18 or over who completed their 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine at least 4 months ago. It does not matter if they received their earlier doses in New Zealand or overseas. Getting your booster dose --- Section Separator --- Some people over the age of 12 who are severely immunocompromised will be eligible to get a third primary dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. This third dose will be optional, but is recommended. This primary third dose is different to a booster dose for the general population. People eligible for a third primary dose can access a booster dose 6 months after receiving their third primary dose. Find more information on how to get a third primary dose --- Section Separator --- Side effects --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. The Pfizer vaccine is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are aged 18 or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects Whether you get the Pfizer vaccine or AstraZeneca vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection. The standard gap between doses is: 3 weeks or more for the Pfizer vaccine 4 weeks or more for the AstraZeneca vaccine. Learn more about getting your second dose Clinical trials found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection and the AstraZeneca vaccine 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Keep track of where you have been. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Healthy habits COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificates --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are aged 18 or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine --- Section Separator --- Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- Whether you get the Pfizer vaccine or AstraZeneca vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection. The standard gap between doses is: 3 weeks or more for the Pfizer vaccine 4 weeks or more for the AstraZeneca vaccine. Learn more about getting your second dose --- Section Separator --- Clinical trials found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection and the AstraZeneca vaccine 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Keep track of where you have been. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Healthy habits --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered My Vaccine Pass International Travel Vaccination Certificates --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Side effects
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is an inflammation of the heart muscle and it can be mild or serious. It is usually caused by viruses, such as COVID-19, but it is also a very rare side effect of the Pfizer vaccine, especially in adolescents and young males. Symptoms of myocarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first week after having the vaccine. If you get any of these symptoms, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is ‘skipping beats’. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | health.govt.nz (external link) If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) is a database of information about adverse reactions (side effects) to medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. CARM monitors this information to identify any issues to help with the safe use and prescribing of medicines. Reporting your side effects will contribute to the data being collected globally, and help identify patterns in New Zealand and any potential safety issues. COVID-19 vaccine: Report an adverse reaction (external link) Reported side effects in New Zealand — Ministry of Health (external link) The Ministry of Health has launched the Post Vaccine Symptom Check, a mobile-based survey that will help monitor reactions to the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand. Up to 10 percent of New Zealanders who receive a dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine will be randomly selected to participate in the survey. Ministry of Health launches mobile-based vaccine monitoring survey (external link) What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. --- Section Separator --- There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is an inflammation of the heart muscle and it can be mild or serious. It is usually caused by viruses, such as COVID-19, but it is also a very rare side effect of the Pfizer vaccine, especially in adolescents and young males. Symptoms of myocarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first week after having the vaccine. If you get any of these symptoms, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is ‘skipping beats’. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. --- Section Separator --- If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) is a database of information about adverse reactions (side effects) to medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. CARM monitors this information to identify any issues to help with the safe use and prescribing of medicines. Reporting your side effects will contribute to the data being collected globally, and help identify patterns in New Zealand and any potential safety issues. COVID-19 vaccine: Report an adverse reaction (external link) Reported side effects in New Zealand — Ministry of Health (external link) The Ministry of Health has launched the Post Vaccine Symptom Check, a mobile-based survey that will help monitor reactions to the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand. Up to 10 percent of New Zealanders who receive a dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine will be randomly selected to participate in the survey. Ministry of Health launches mobile-based vaccine monitoring survey (external link) --- Section Separator --- What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster Reschedule or cancel your appointment What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Side effects
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- These sectors and business types are where COVID-19 vaccinations are mandatory. Border and managed isolation and quarantine workers Education sector Health and disability sector Prison workers NZ Police NZ Defence Force Fire and Emergency New Zealand Workers covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate. This applies to food and drink services (excluding businesses that operate solely as takeaways), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. The mandate also applies to on-site tertiary education when Red settings are in place. This may be because they work with populations that: are unable to be vaccinated are at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are at-risk of outbreaks. Vaccination in these sectors is an important tool for reducing infection and transmission. For example, in healthcare, workers are more likely to be in contact with someone that has COVID-19, making it a high-risk sector. A high rate of vaccination in this sector will help to protect staff from getting sick and passing COVID-19 onto others, including those who are at risk from severe illness. Most people in these sectors are already vaccinated. But getting everyone in these sectors vaccinated is critical to the management of COVID-19. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered In principle , Cabinet has agreed that these workers will need to have their vaccine boosters. Eight vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for workers who fall under a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination order. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). Workers covered by the mandate in New Zealand need to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. If you have had the Janssen vaccination overseas, you are fully vaccinated with 1 dose. If you have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, you will need to have a second dose to be fully vaccinated. You are able to get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as your second dose. Workers may be able to get an exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Depending on the type of work done, there are different exemption grounds that may apply. For example, for an exemption on medical grounds, workers will need to apply to the Ministry of Health. Exemptions for the border, health and education sectors and in prisons | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about exemptions for hospitality, events, close-contact businesses, gyms and tertiary education will be available soon on business.govt.nz. NZ Police and NZ Defence Force will have information about exemptions available in mid-December 2021. Guidance for employees and employers on COVID-19 vaccination requirements in the workplace is available from Employment New Zealand. Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) If a business or workplace is not covered by a government mandate for COVID-19 vaccination, they can choose to do a risk assessment to see if work needs to be done by vaccinated workers, on health and safety grounds. The vaccination assessment tool provides a clear, legal framework to help businesses make decisions about vaccinations in the workplace. It is optional to use and does not replace any risk assessments that have already been done. Vaccination assessment tool | business.govt.nz (external link) How to decide what work requires a vaccinated employee | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) This toolkit contains information and resources to help workplaces, non-profit groups and other organisations to support COVID-19 vaccinations in their communities. The toolkit will help you to support the national vaccine and immunisation programme — and most importantly, ensure your people are protected from COVID-19. COVID-19 Vaccine Business and workplace toolkit [PDF, 2.7 MB] The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that businesses and organisations can use to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and keep their community safe. More information about NZ Pass Verifier app COVID-10 vaccine posters, videos and flyers COVID-19: Mandatory vaccinations | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Required Vaccinations Order | education.govt.nz (external link) Corrections COVID-19 vaccination programme | corrections.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | legislation.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- These sectors and business types are where COVID-19 vaccinations are mandatory. Border and managed isolation and quarantine workers Education sector Health and disability sector Prison workers NZ Police NZ Defence Force Fire and Emergency New Zealand Workers covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate. This applies to food and drink services (excluding businesses that operate solely as takeaways), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. The mandate also applies to on-site tertiary education when Red settings are in place. This may be because they work with populations that: are unable to be vaccinated are at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19 are at-risk of outbreaks. Vaccination in these sectors is an important tool for reducing infection and transmission. For example, in healthcare, workers are more likely to be in contact with someone that has COVID-19, making it a high-risk sector. A high rate of vaccination in this sector will help to protect staff from getting sick and passing COVID-19 onto others, including those who are at risk from severe illness. Most people in these sectors are already vaccinated. But getting everyone in these sectors vaccinated is critical to the management of COVID-19. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered In principle , Cabinet has agreed that these workers will need to have their vaccine boosters. --- Section Separator --- Eight vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for workers who fall under a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination order. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). Workers covered by the mandate in New Zealand need to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. If you have had the Janssen vaccination overseas, you are fully vaccinated with 1 dose. If you have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, you will need to have a second dose to be fully vaccinated. You are able to get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as your second dose. --- Section Separator --- Workers may be able to get an exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Depending on the type of work done, there are different exemption grounds that may apply. For example, for an exemption on medical grounds, workers will need to apply to the Ministry of Health. Exemptions for the border, health and education sectors and in prisons | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about exemptions for hospitality, events, close-contact businesses, gyms and tertiary education will be available soon on business.govt.nz. NZ Police and NZ Defence Force will have information about exemptions available in mid-December 2021. --- Section Separator --- Guidance for employees and employers on COVID-19 vaccination requirements in the workplace is available from Employment New Zealand. Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) If a business or workplace is not covered by a government mandate for COVID-19 vaccination, they can choose to do a risk assessment to see if work needs to be done by vaccinated workers, on health and safety grounds. The vaccination assessment tool provides a clear, legal framework to help businesses make decisions about vaccinations in the workplace. It is optional to use and does not replace any risk assessments that have already been done. Vaccination assessment tool | business.govt.nz (external link) How to decide what work requires a vaccinated employee | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) This toolkit contains information and resources to help workplaces, non-profit groups and other organisations to support COVID-19 vaccinations in their communities. The toolkit will help you to support the national vaccine and immunisation programme — and most importantly, ensure your people are protected from COVID-19. COVID-19 Vaccine Business and workplace toolkit [PDF, 2.7 MB] The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that businesses and organisations can use to help stop the spread of COVID-19 and keep their community safe. More information about NZ Pass Verifier app --- Section Separator --- COVID-10 vaccine posters, videos and flyers COVID-19: Mandatory vaccinations | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Required Vaccinations Order | education.govt.nz (external link) Corrections COVID-19 vaccination programme | corrections.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | legislation.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to get a vaccination Vaccinations and work Border worker vaccinations Border worker vaccinations Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Vaccination status certificates 2 shots for summer
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work Border worker vaccinations --- Section Separator --- On 1 May 2021, it became mandatory for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 outlines these requirements. On 14 July 2021, following an amendment to the Vaccinations Order, the rules for vaccination against COVID-19 was broadened to most border workers. Including airports and ports. The Vaccinations Order is a legally binding health instruction which requires certain groups of border workers to be vaccinated to undertake ‘certain work’. From 30 September, any newly employed workers need to have their first dose of COVID-19 vaccination before starting work in a role covered by the Vaccinations Order. They must have their second dose within 35 days of their start date. All workers who are required to be tested for COVID-19 on either a 7-day or 14-day schedule will now also be required to get vaccinated before they perform that work. The expanded Order applies to people working at: managed isolation and quarantine facilities (MIQFs) and managed isolation facilities (MIFs) airside area of affected airports and some other higher-risk work at airports affected ports accommodation services where specified aircrew members are self-isolating. It also includes people doing work: that involves handling affected items removed from ships, planes or MIQFs or MIFs, and where the job is for a company that is routinely engaged to provide services for a plane, ship, MIQF or MIF, and where the person ‘has contact with’ people who belong to different groups in the Order. Use this tool to find out if a worker must get vaccinated Eight vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for border workers in New Zealand that need to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). If they have had the Janssen vaccination overseas, they are fully vaccinated with 1 dose. If they have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, they will need to have a second dose within 35 days of starting work to be fully vaccinated. They can get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as their second dose. New workers must now have their first dose before starting work and their second within 35 days of their start date. This applies to government and private business employees. You can book your COVID-19 vaccination online or over the phone, or by visiting a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. How to get a vaccination When your employer or PCBU enters your details in the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR) the BWTR will send your details to your local district health board (DHB). They will then contact you about booking your vaccination appointments. DHBs will prioritise bookings for affected workers who are not yet vaccinated. Email: bordersectorvaccinations@health.govt.nz To prevent the virus coming into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting all of the people who work there. A ll border workers , including those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports , and all of those who are contracted to provide services in the border environment , are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19. Any border workers in roles affected by the Vaccinations Order must be vaccinated in order to continue with that work, unless they have an exemption or exception . The Order allows PCBUs to apply for a supply chain exemption for a named worker. The exemption came into force on 12 August 2021 . The Minister for COVID-19 Response decides if an exemption should be granted. Learn more about applying for a supply chain exemption | transport.govt.nz (external link) Guidance for PCBUs engaging with workers regarding vaccinations [PDF, 688 KB] COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Border worker testing | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- On 1 May 2021, it became mandatory for a narrow group of border workers and Government officials working at the border or an MIQ facility to be vaccinated against COVID-19. The COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 outlines these requirements. On 14 July 2021, following an amendment to the Vaccinations Order, the rules for vaccination against COVID-19 was broadened to most border workers. Including airports and ports. The Vaccinations Order is a legally binding health instruction which requires certain groups of border workers to be vaccinated to undertake ‘certain work’. From 30 September, any newly employed workers need to have their first dose of COVID-19 vaccination before starting work in a role covered by the Vaccinations Order. They must have their second dose within 35 days of their start date. --- Section Separator --- All workers who are required to be tested for COVID-19 on either a 7-day or 14-day schedule will now also be required to get vaccinated before they perform that work. The expanded Order applies to people working at: managed isolation and quarantine facilities (MIQFs) and managed isolation facilities (MIFs) airside area of affected airports and some other higher-risk work at airports affected ports accommodation services where specified aircrew members are self-isolating. It also includes people doing work: that involves handling affected items removed from ships, planes or MIQFs or MIFs, and where the job is for a company that is routinely engaged to provide services for a plane, ship, MIQF or MIF, and where the person ‘has contact with’ people who belong to different groups in the Order. Use this tool to find out if a worker must get vaccinated --- Section Separator --- Eight vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for border workers in New Zealand that need to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech). If they have had the Janssen vaccination overseas, they are fully vaccinated with 1 dose. If they have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, they will need to have a second dose within 35 days of starting work to be fully vaccinated. They can get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as their second dose. --- Section Separator --- New workers must now have their first dose before starting work and their second within 35 days of their start date. This applies to government and private business employees. --- Section Separator --- You can book your COVID-19 vaccination online or over the phone, or by visiting a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. How to get a vaccination When your employer or PCBU enters your details in the Border Workforce Testing Register (BWTR) the BWTR will send your details to your local district health board (DHB). They will then contact you about booking your vaccination appointments. DHBs will prioritise bookings for affected workers who are not yet vaccinated. Email: bordersectorvaccinations@health.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- To prevent the virus coming into our communities, we must continue to strengthen our border by protecting all of the people who work there. A ll border workers , including those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports , and all of those who are contracted to provide services in the border environment , are at the greatest risk of exposure to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Any border workers in roles affected by the Vaccinations Order must be vaccinated in order to continue with that work, unless they have an exemption or exception . --- Section Separator --- The Order allows PCBUs to apply for a supply chain exemption for a named worker. The exemption came into force on 12 August 2021 . The Minister for COVID-19 Response decides if an exemption should be granted. Learn more about applying for a supply chain exemption | transport.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Guidance for PCBUs engaging with workers regarding vaccinations [PDF, 688 KB] COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Border Workforce Testing Register resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Border worker testing | health.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Border worker vaccinations Find out if a worker must get vaccinated Find out if a worker must get vaccinated
Home Isolation and care If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 your doctor or a health professional will be in contact with you. They will explain what it means to have COVID-19 and what you need to do. It is nothing to be embarrassed about — it can happen to anyone. COVID-19 does not care who it infects. From this point on: you must stay at home or your accommodation, unless a health professional tells you otherwise have your phone with you and answer all calls. You will need to provide details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. This is to help prevent further spread of COVID-19. This will be a call from a contact tracer. Their job is to find out where you might have caught it, and who else you might have exposed to the virus. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app, they will ask you to share your digital diary and talk you through the process. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, the contact tracer will ask if you want to send a Bluetooth alert. If you agree, they will talk you through the process. How contact tracing works Everyone who tests positive for COVID-19 and everyone who lives with them and their close contacts will need to isolate from the community to help stop the spread of the virus. You will get a call to discuss whether you are well set-up to isolate at home. If it is unsuitable, other options are available — this could be because of how severe your symptoms are or whether you are at-risk for complications. There are 2 ways to isolate, either: at home (or in suitable alternative accommodation) in a managed isolation facility. If you are very unwell, you will receive hospital care. What to expect when self-isolating at home What to expect if you go into managed isolation Anyone you live with will need to stay home for the entire time you and anyone else in your household who tests positive are isolating. Household members of a COVID-19 case are Close Contacts and will need to get a series of tests. Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 Once the last case has been released from isolation, the rest of your household will have a further 10 days in isolation. This means they will need to isolate for longer than you. If someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, those who have not tested positive within the last 6 months will have their isolation period extended. If you are travelling around the country and you test positive for COVID-19, there is a risk that you may not be able to return safely to your home to isolate. You will only be able to return home if you or a whānau member are able to drive. You will need to prepare for the possibility you will get COVID-19 while away from home before you go on holiday. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling You will have support from local healthcare providers to meet your health, welfare and wellbeing needs while you are recovering from COVID-19. A 24-hour contact phone number will be available for health support, and you will get a dedicated contact person to check on you and your whānau. Contacts for health support may differ across the country. Your point of contact may be an individual or a team from your general practice, primary care provider or from a local community health service. Your contact person will tell you how often they will be in contact to check on you. If you need medication, contact your doctor or your local community pharmacy who can get it safely delivered to your home. You may go into a MIQ facility which can meet your health and welfare needs and to prevent the risk of spreading COVID-19 in your whānau and community. Facility staff, including a dedicated health team, will check on your physical and mental health during your stay. The health team will confirm your treatment details with you – these are on a case-by-case basis. In some cases, people with COVID-19 become very unwell and need to go to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. What to expect after you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 your doctor or a health professional will be in contact with you. They will explain what it means to have COVID-19 and what you need to do. It is nothing to be embarrassed about — it can happen to anyone. COVID-19 does not care who it infects. From this point on: you must stay at home or your accommodation, unless a health professional tells you otherwise have your phone with you and answer all calls. --- Section Separator --- You will need to provide details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. This is to help prevent further spread of COVID-19. This will be a call from a contact tracer. Their job is to find out where you might have caught it, and who else you might have exposed to the virus. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app, they will ask you to share your digital diary and talk you through the process. If you have Bluetooth tracing turned on, the contact tracer will ask if you want to send a Bluetooth alert. If you agree, they will talk you through the process. How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Everyone who tests positive for COVID-19 and everyone who lives with them and their close contacts will need to isolate from the community to help stop the spread of the virus. You will get a call to discuss whether you are well set-up to isolate at home. If it is unsuitable, other options are available — this could be because of how severe your symptoms are or whether you are at-risk for complications. There are 2 ways to isolate, either: at home (or in suitable alternative accommodation) in a managed isolation facility. If you are very unwell, you will receive hospital care. What to expect when self-isolating at home What to expect if you go into managed isolation --- Section Separator --- Anyone you live with will need to stay home for the entire time you and anyone else in your household who tests positive are isolating. Household members of a COVID-19 case are Close Contacts and will need to get a series of tests. Contacts of someone who has COVID-19 Once the last case has been released from isolation, the rest of your household will have a further 10 days in isolation. This means they will need to isolate for longer than you. If someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, those who have not tested positive within the last 6 months will have their isolation period extended. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling around the country and you test positive for COVID-19, there is a risk that you may not be able to return safely to your home to isolate. You will only be able to return home if you or a whānau member are able to drive. You will need to prepare for the possibility you will get COVID-19 while away from home before you go on holiday. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- You will have support from local healthcare providers to meet your health, welfare and wellbeing needs while you are recovering from COVID-19. A 24-hour contact phone number will be available for health support, and you will get a dedicated contact person to check on you and your whānau. Contacts for health support may differ across the country. Your point of contact may be an individual or a team from your general practice, primary care provider or from a local community health service. Your contact person will tell you how often they will be in contact to check on you. If you need medication, contact your doctor or your local community pharmacy who can get it safely delivered to your home. You may go into a MIQ facility which can meet your health and welfare needs and to prevent the risk of spreading COVID-19 in your whānau and community. Facility staff, including a dedicated health team, will check on your physical and mental health during your stay. The health team will confirm your treatment details with you – these are on a case-by-case basis. In some cases, people with COVID-19 become very unwell and need to go to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. --- Section Separator --- What to expect after you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling away from home If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling away from home What to expect when self-isolating at home What to expect if you go into managed isolation What to expect after you have had COVID-19 Getting extra support if you have COVID-19 or are self-isolating Care in the community Financial support
Home Isolation and care If you test positive for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling away from home --- Section Separator --- While vaccination is highly effective, it is still possible to get COVID-19. You may get it while you are away from home on holiday or for work, even if you are following the rules. You should prepare for what you may need to do if this happens. Make a plan for how to get home to isolate if you get COVID-19, if you can travel there safely. You will only be able to return home if you or someone you are travelling with are able to drive. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you will need to think about: the route you might take how you would get fuel — you should only stop at a contactless petrol station supplies you might need for the journey home to reduce the number of stops you make, including supplies to treat COVID-19 symptoms. The people you are travelling with, whether it is friends or whānau, will need to be prepared for what might happen. You should talk through the plan together. If you have travelled to your destination on public transport, for example ferry or plane, it is likely you will need to stay at that location for your isolation period. Common symptoms of COVID-19 are like those found with illnesses such as a cold or flu. If you have these symptoms when you are on holiday or away from home, it is important that you get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home to get tested. If you become unwell or have been exposed to COVID-19 while you are away from home, you should: call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and what to do isolate at your accommodation if you are symptomatic, until you get your test result. Find a COVID-19 testing location | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) COVID-19 symptoms Close Contacts Casual and Casual Plus Contacts Many community based testing centres will be closed on public holidays. The most important thing to do is to call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or check Healthpoint for opening hours of a community testing centre. Find a COVID-19 testing location | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) A health professional will be in contact with you. You will be able to discuss with them what you need to do and whether it is safe for you to travel home. You will not be able to: take a commercial flight home do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. If you need urgent medical help or are having difficulties breathing, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19. If you test positive for COVID-19 You will need to tell the owner or operator of your holiday accommodation whether you are a contact of a case or if you have tested positive. This will allow them to make sure the property is safe for the next booking. If you are a contact and your test is negative, you should tell your accommodation provider you are not a COVID-19 case. If you are travelling around the country, there is a risk that you may not be able to return safely to your home to isolate. You will have to remain in place. You will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. If you are unable to get home, you will need to think about: getting someone to look after your house care for your pets taking things with you to help with boredom while isolating making sure you have enough money to cover an extended time away from home have a list of medical information — include everyone’s names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions, and medication or medical supplies each person needs. If you are unable to return home safely and you can isolate at your accommodation, you will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines: What to expect from self-isolation You will only be able to return home if you or someone you are travelling with are able to drive. You must not use public transport or undertake any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. You must drive directly to your home, making as few stops as possible. You need to minimise your contact with others. Remember to: scan everywhere you go wear a face covering when not in the car maintain physical distancing in public spaces. If you are borrowing or renting a car, you will need to tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle thoroughly afterwards. Once you are home, a health professional will tell you what to do, and you will be able to follow the self-isolation guidance. Anyone travelling with you is a close contact and will need to know what to do: What to expect from self-isolation Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- While vaccination is highly effective, it is still possible to get COVID-19. You may get it while you are away from home on holiday or for work, even if you are following the rules. You should prepare for what you may need to do if this happens. Make a plan for how to get home to isolate if you get COVID-19, if you can travel there safely. You will only be able to return home if you or someone you are travelling with are able to drive. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you will need to think about: the route you might take how you would get fuel — you should only stop at a contactless petrol station supplies you might need for the journey home to reduce the number of stops you make, including supplies to treat COVID-19 symptoms. The people you are travelling with, whether it is friends or whānau, will need to be prepared for what might happen. You should talk through the plan together. If you have travelled to your destination on public transport, for example ferry or plane, it is likely you will need to stay at that location for your isolation period. --- Section Separator --- Common symptoms of COVID-19 are like those found with illnesses such as a cold or flu. If you have these symptoms when you are on holiday or away from home, it is important that you get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home to get tested. If you become unwell or have been exposed to COVID-19 while you are away from home, you should: call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and what to do isolate at your accommodation if you are symptomatic, until you get your test result. Find a COVID-19 testing location | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) COVID-19 symptoms Close Contacts Casual and Casual Plus Contacts --- Section Separator --- Many community based testing centres will be closed on public holidays. The most important thing to do is to call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or check Healthpoint for opening hours of a community testing centre. Find a COVID-19 testing location | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- A health professional will be in contact with you. You will be able to discuss with them what you need to do and whether it is safe for you to travel home. You will not be able to: take a commercial flight home do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. If you need urgent medical help or are having difficulties breathing, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19. If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You will need to tell the owner or operator of your holiday accommodation whether you are a contact of a case or if you have tested positive. This will allow them to make sure the property is safe for the next booking. If you are a contact and your test is negative, you should tell your accommodation provider you are not a COVID-19 case. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling around the country, there is a risk that you may not be able to return safely to your home to isolate. You will have to remain in place. You will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. If you are unable to get home, you will need to think about: getting someone to look after your house care for your pets taking things with you to help with boredom while isolating making sure you have enough money to cover an extended time away from home have a list of medical information — include everyone’s names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions, and medication or medical supplies each person needs. If you are unable to return home safely and you can isolate at your accommodation, you will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines: What to expect from self-isolation --- Section Separator --- You will only be able to return home if you or someone you are travelling with are able to drive. You must not use public transport or undertake any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. You must drive directly to your home, making as few stops as possible. You need to minimise your contact with others. Remember to: scan everywhere you go wear a face covering when not in the car maintain physical distancing in public spaces. If you are borrowing or renting a car, you will need to tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle thoroughly afterwards. Once you are home, a health professional will tell you what to do, and you will be able to follow the self-isolation guidance. Anyone travelling with you is a close contact and will need to know what to do: What to expect from self-isolation Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling away from home
Home Isolation and care What to expect when self-isolating at home --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, your doctor or a health professional will call you to discuss: what it means to have COVID-19 and what you need to do all the people you have had contact with recently if you will move into a quarantine facility or self-isolate at home. You will need to isolate for at least: 10 days while you recover from COVID-19 and be symptom-free for 72 hours, if you are fully vaccinated 14 days while you recover from COVID-19 and be symptom-free for 72 hours, if you are not fully vaccinated. You can isolate in your home or suitable alternative accommodation. This could be another property that you have access to, or are provided, that is more suitable for self-isolation than where you usually live. You can self-isolate there instead. Anyone you live with will need to stay home for the entire time you are isolating. If someone else in your household tests positive for COVID-19, you will be advised on how much longer you need to isolate for. While you are isolating at home, you will have a dedicated contact person check up on you and make sure that you and your whānau are safe. It is normal to feel nervous or unsure about what the next few weeks will look like. Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. You will get instructions and advice directly from a public health official that is specific to your individual situation and your needs. Stay home. Do not go to work, school or public places — even to exercise. Limit contact with others you live with — for example, sleep by yourself and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, you should stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face covering that covers your nose and mouth when near others. Do not share items with others in your household — for example, dishes, toothbrushes, and towels. Do your own laundry. Do not have visitors in your home. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes items frequently touched like door handles, light switches and phones. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. If you need food, prescriptions or essential items get friends or family to leave them on your doorstep, or get supplies delivered. Your health, welfare and wellbeing needs will be discussed with immediate supports and information provided. This could be with your doctor, a social and wellbeing provider, a kaupapa Māori or Pacific provider, or the public health unit. You will get a care pack with advice on looking after yourself and supporting your recovery. It may include a pulse oximeter if you need one. How often you receive health and wellbeing checks while you are self-isolating will depend on your symptoms and recovery. If you have moderate symptoms or are more at risk, you will get a virtual health check, like a phone call, from your health provider every day. If you are at low risk of experiencing severe COVID-19 infection and only have mild symptoms, you will get a virtual health check every second day. If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. The people who live in your house will need to be tested regularly to check if they have COVID-19. You will get information on when, how and where this needs to happen. Close Contacts You will have a health assessment by a medical practitioner at 10 to 14 days. The timing of this depends on if you are vaccinated. You will need to be symptom free for the 72 hours before your isolation release date and continue to have no symptoms. If approved by the medical practitioner, you will be able to leave your house the next day. You do not need to be tested. If you did, the result would likely show as positive but that does not mean you are infectious. Anyone you live with will need to stay home for the entire time you and anyone else in your household who tests positive are isolating. Once the last case has been released from isolation, the rest of your household will have a further 10 days in isolation. This means they will need to isolate for longer than you. Your health contact will continue to check in on them during this time. If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. In some cases, people with COVID-19 become very unwell and need to be admitted to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you had a more severe illness and require hospital care, you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis by a health professional. Pay attention to how you are feeling and look out for worsening symptoms. If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. Care in the Community: Self-isolating timeline [PDF, 90 KB] It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. Looking after your mental wellbeing If you need help or financial support, there are several options available while you are self-isolating. Financial support Getting support if you have COVID-19 or are self-isolating After you have recovered from COVID-19 and are released from isolation by a health professional, there are a few things you should do. What to expect after you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, your doctor or a health professional will call you to discuss: what it means to have COVID-19 and what you need to do all the people you have had contact with recently if you will move into a quarantine facility or self-isolate at home. You will need to isolate for at least: 10 days while you recover from COVID-19 and be symptom-free for 72 hours, if you are fully vaccinated 14 days while you recover from COVID-19 and be symptom-free for 72 hours, if you are not fully vaccinated. You can isolate in your home or suitable alternative accommodation. This could be another property that you have access to, or are provided, that is more suitable for self-isolation than where you usually live. You can self-isolate there instead. Anyone you live with will need to stay home for the entire time you are isolating. If someone else in your household tests positive for COVID-19, you will be advised on how much longer you need to isolate for. While you are isolating at home, you will have a dedicated contact person check up on you and make sure that you and your whānau are safe. It is normal to feel nervous or unsure about what the next few weeks will look like. --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation means staying at home and taking common-sense precautions to avoid close contact with those you live with. You will get instructions and advice directly from a public health official that is specific to your individual situation and your needs. Stay home. Do not go to work, school or public places — even to exercise. Limit contact with others you live with — for example, sleep by yourself and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, you should stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face covering that covers your nose and mouth when near others. Do not share items with others in your household — for example, dishes, toothbrushes, and towels. Do your own laundry. Do not have visitors in your home. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes items frequently touched like door handles, light switches and phones. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. If you need food, prescriptions or essential items get friends or family to leave them on your doorstep, or get supplies delivered. --- Section Separator --- Your health, welfare and wellbeing needs will be discussed with immediate supports and information provided. This could be with your doctor, a social and wellbeing provider, a kaupapa Māori or Pacific provider, or the public health unit. You will get a care pack with advice on looking after yourself and supporting your recovery. It may include a pulse oximeter if you need one. How often you receive health and wellbeing checks while you are self-isolating will depend on your symptoms and recovery. If you have moderate symptoms or are more at risk, you will get a virtual health check, like a phone call, from your health provider every day. If you are at low risk of experiencing severe COVID-19 infection and only have mild symptoms, you will get a virtual health check every second day. If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. The people who live in your house will need to be tested regularly to check if they have COVID-19. You will get information on when, how and where this needs to happen. Close Contacts You will have a health assessment by a medical practitioner at 10 to 14 days. The timing of this depends on if you are vaccinated. You will need to be symptom free for the 72 hours before your isolation release date and continue to have no symptoms. If approved by the medical practitioner, you will be able to leave your house the next day. You do not need to be tested. If you did, the result would likely show as positive but that does not mean you are infectious. Anyone you live with will need to stay home for the entire time you and anyone else in your household who tests positive are isolating. Once the last case has been released from isolation, the rest of your household will have a further 10 days in isolation. This means they will need to isolate for longer than you. Your health contact will continue to check in on them during this time. --- Section Separator --- If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. In some cases, people with COVID-19 become very unwell and need to be admitted to hospital. In this case, the hospital will take the steps needed to isolate you while giving you the medical care you need. If you had a more severe illness and require hospital care, you will need more time before you can return home and resume your usual activities. This will be assessed on a case-by-case basis by a health professional. --- Section Separator --- Pay attention to how you are feeling and look out for worsening symptoms. If you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you ring. Care in the Community: Self-isolating timeline [PDF, 90 KB] It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. Looking after your mental wellbeing If you need help or financial support, there are several options available while you are self-isolating. Financial support Getting support if you have COVID-19 or are self-isolating After you have recovered from COVID-19 and are released from isolation by a health professional, there are a few things you should do. What to expect after you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 What to expect when self-isolating at home What to expect if you go into managed isolation What to expect after you have had COVID-19 Getting extra support if you have COVID-19 or are self-isolating Care in the community Financial support
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Booking your COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 4 MB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 1.2 MB] An update about the gap between vaccine doses [DOCX, 2.8 MB] An update about the gap between vaccine doses [PDF, 1.3 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [DOCX, 14 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [PDF, 2.8 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.6 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.4 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 11 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.5 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 8.9 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.8 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 15 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 3.8 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting a medical exemption [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting a medical exemption [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about the booster dose [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the booster dose [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] The COVID-19 vaccination record card has been updated. The new design has one of the corners cut. You may still receive the old design while vaccination centres use up stock. COVID-19 vaccination record card — new design [DOCX, 5 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — new design [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — old design [DOCX, 4.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — old design [PDF, 1.2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Booking your COVID-19 vaccination [DOCX, 4 MB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination [PDF, 1.2 MB] An update about the gap between vaccine doses [DOCX, 2.8 MB] An update about the gap between vaccine doses [PDF, 1.3 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [DOCX, 14 MB] When will people get their COVID-19 vaccine? [PDF, 2.8 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Making a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.6 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 13 MB] Before getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.4 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 11 MB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 2.5 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 8.9 MB] After your COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 1.8 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 15 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 3.8 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] Getting a medical exemption [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Getting a medical exemption [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about the booster dose [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the booster dose [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 vaccination record card has been updated. The new design has one of the corners cut. You may still receive the old design while vaccination centres use up stock. COVID-19 vaccination record card — new design [DOCX, 5 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — new design [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — old design [DOCX, 4.4 MB] COVID-19 vaccination record card — old design [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) COVID-19 Protection Framework (Easy Read) About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) COVID-19 Protection Framework (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Looking after your community (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5.7 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.5 MB] What are locations of interest? [DOCX, 3 MB] What are locations of interest? [PDF, 1.3 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.1 MB] What happens if your test says you have COVID-19? [DOCX, 4.4 MB] What happens if your test says you have COVID-19? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you are told to stay at home or self-isolate [DOCX, 8.6 MB] What to do if you are told to stay at home or self-isolate [PDF, 3.2 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering? [DOCX, 9.4 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering? [PDF, 1.9 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [PDF, 1.4 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [DOCX, 3.3 MB] Contact tracing — keeping track of where you have been [PDF, 1.1 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [DOCX, 5.7 MB] How to use the NZ COVID Tracer app [PDF, 1.5 MB] What are locations of interest? [DOCX, 3 MB] What are locations of interest? [PDF, 1.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.1 MB] What happens if your test says you have COVID-19? [DOCX, 4.4 MB] What happens if your test says you have COVID-19? [PDF, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you are told to stay at home or self-isolate [DOCX, 8.6 MB] What to do if you are told to stay at home or self-isolate [PDF, 3.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- When do you need to wear a face covering? [DOCX, 9.4 MB] When do you need to wear a face covering? [PDF, 1.9 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [DOCX, 15 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE): Information for disabled people [PDF, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) COVID-19 Protection Framework (Easy Read) About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) COVID-19 Protection Framework (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read COVID-19 Protection Framework (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- About the COVID-19 Protection Framework [DOCX, 16 MB] About the COVID-19 Protection Framework [PDF, 3.5 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- About the COVID-19 Protection Framework [DOCX, 16 MB] About the COVID-19 Protection Framework [PDF, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) COVID-19 Protection Framework (Easy Read) About COVID-19 (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Looking after your community (Easy Read) Travel to and from New Zealand (Easy Read) Getting support (Easy Read) COVID-19 Protection Framework (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Who should get tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 66 KB] Getting testing for COVID-19 [DOCX, 535 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 540 KB] Who should get tested for COVID-19 [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 8.1 MB] Locations of interest [DOCX, 534 KB] Locations of interest [MP3, 614 KB] Isolation advice for COVID-19 contacts [DOCX, 535 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 2.2 MB] Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 537 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 1.7 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Who should get tested for COVID-19 [DOCX, 66 KB] Getting testing for COVID-19 [DOCX, 535 KB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [DOCX, 540 KB] Who should get tested for COVID-19 [MP3, 2.6 MB] What happens when someone receives a positive COVID-19 test result? [MP3, 8.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest [DOCX, 534 KB] Locations of interest [MP3, 614 KB] --- Section Separator --- Isolation advice for COVID-19 contacts [DOCX, 535 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Contact tracing [DOCX, 51 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] Contact tracing [MP3, 1.6 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth — full audio [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 537 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 1.7 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) Getting support (Large Print and audio) The COVID Protection Framework (Large print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) Getting support (Large Print and audio) The COVID Protection Framework (Large print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio The COVID Protection Framework (Large print and audio) --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Protection Framework [DOCX, 546 KB] The COVID-19 Protection Framework [MP3, 15 MB] Life at Red [DOCX, 545 KB] Life at Orange [DOCX, 545 KB] Travelling around New Zealand at different traffic light settings [DOCX, 542 KB] Life at Red [MP3, 13 MB] Life at Orange [MP3, 12 MB] --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Protection Framework [DOCX, 546 KB] The COVID-19 Protection Framework [MP3, 15 MB] --- Section Separator --- Life at Red [DOCX, 545 KB] Life at Orange [DOCX, 545 KB] Travelling around New Zealand at different traffic light settings [DOCX, 542 KB] Life at Red [MP3, 13 MB] Life at Orange [MP3, 12 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) Getting support (Large Print and audio) The COVID Protection Framework (Large print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) About COVID-19 (Large Print and audio) Travel to and from New Zealand (Large Print and audio) Looking after your community (Large Print and audio) Getting support (Large Print and audio) The COVID Protection Framework (Large print and audio) Audio description Braille
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Honoa mai ki ngā whakaohiti mō ngā pārongo KŌWHEORI-19 kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori --- Section Separator --- Anei ngā whakahoutanga KOWHEORI-19 hou rawa: Te ora i te Whero Life at Red Te ora i te Karaka Life at Orange He tautoko mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 Support for if you get COVID-19 Kua rite tō kāinga ina pāngia tētahi e te KOWHEORI-19? Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? Te hāereere i Aotearoa Travel around New Zealand My Covid Record My Vaccine Pass Taku Tohu Ārai Mate International Travel Vaccination Certificate Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere NZ Pass Verifier app Taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa --- Section Separator --- E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19, i te wā e tuku ana i ngā herekoretanga nui ake ki te hunga whai tohu ārai mate. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Haere kia werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate kore utu ināianei, ā, ka wete i ngā here ki ngā mea e arohatia ana e koe mā Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. E haere ai koe i roto o Aotearoa, e tae mai ai koe i tāwāhi rānei, ka mate pea koe ki te whiwhi tiwhikete e tohu ana i tō tūnga kano ārai mate, te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, te kuhu atu rānei ki te wāhi noho taratahi. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo. --- Section Separator --- E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19, i te wā e tuku ana i ngā herekoretanga nui ake ki te hunga whai tohu ārai mate. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Haere kia werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate kore utu ināianei, ā, ka wete i ngā here ki ngā mea e arohatia ana e koe mā Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. E haere ai koe i roto o Aotearoa, e tae mai ai koe i tāwāhi rānei, ka mate pea koe ki te whiwhi tiwhikete e tohu ana i tō tūnga kano ārai mate, te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, te kuhu atu rānei ki te wāhi noho taratahi. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo.
Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation He tautoko mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 | Support for if you get COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Ko te nuinga o te hunga kua whiwhi i ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate, ā, ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, ka ngāwari noa te pānga o te māuiui, ā, ka tino hoki ora mai i ō rātou kāinga, i tētahi atu wāhi noho e tika ana rānei. Ko te āhua o te tiaki i roto i te hapori, ko te tautoko i te tangata e ngā kaiwhakarato tiaki ā-rohe, ki te whakarite i te whakatutukitanga o ā rātou hiahia hauora, toko i te ora, oranga hoki i te wā e whakamātūtū mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19. Ko te hunga katoa e whakaatu ana tō rātou whakamātautau kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te hunga katoa e noho ana i ō rātou taha, me noho taratahi hoki hei āwhina ki te aukati i te horapatanga o te huaketo. E rua ngā huarahi o te noho taratahi ā-whaiaro – i te kāinga, i tētahi atu wāhi noho e tika ana rānei, i tētahi whare taratahi e whakahaeretia ana rānei. Ko ngā whare taratahi e whakahaeretia ana, kei ngā hōtēra i ētahi wāhi puta noa i Aotearoa, e taea ana e koe te noho taratahi mō te kore utu, me tō whānau hoki, mō te tekau rā, neke atu rānei. Mēnā he wāhi anō e taea ana e koe te whakauru atu, e whakaratoa ana rānei ki a koe, e āhua pai ana mōu ki te noho taratahi ā-whaiaro, ka taea e koe te noho taratahi i taua wāhi. Kia mōhio: mēnā e tino māuiui ana koe ka whiwhi koe i te maimoatanga i te hōhipera. Ina whakaatu tō whakamātautau kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, me noho taratahi koe i tō kāinga, i tētahi wāhi noho e tika ana rānei mō te tekau rā, neke atu rānei i te wā e whakamātūtū mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19. Me noho taratahi hoki te hunga katoa i tō kāinga noho mō te tekau rā neke atu rānei i te wā e whakamātūtū mai ana te tangata i whakaatu ai te whakamātautau kua pāngia ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ka whakamōhiotia koe mēnā ka roa ake i tēra. Kaua e: wehe atu i te wāhi e noho taratahi ana koe haere ki te mahi, kura, wāhi tūmatanui haere mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui, te haere i runga tēkehi rānei haere ki te tiki kai, rongoā rānei pōhiri manuhiri ki tō kāinga, engari ngā kaimahi hauora, hapori rānei e whakarato ana i te maimoatanga waiwai ki a koutou ko te hunga i tō kāinga haere ki tētahi toronga kano ārai mate. Mēnā he toronga kano ārai mate kua whakaritea, me waea atu ki te waea tāpui, haere mā runga ipurangi rānei ki te panoni i tō toronga haere ki tētahi wāhi tūmatanui ki te kori tinana – me kori i te kāinga anake. I te wā e tika ana, pātai ki tētahi hoa, whānau rānei ki te hoko kai māhau, engari kaua e kawea ki rō whare. Mēnā kāore e taea tēnei, me tono kai i runga ipurangi. Me whakarite kia waihotia ngā tukunga ki waho i tō kāinga, māhau tonu e kohi. Me mea noa te noho āmaimai, kohuki rānei mō te noho taratahi me te KOWHEORI-19. Ka whakaritea he tangata hauora hei whakapānga māhau, māna koe e whakapā putuputu ki a koe ki te tiro mēnā e noho haumaru ana koutou ko tō whānau, ā, e tautokona ana koutou, me te tuku ki a koe tētahi nama waea mō te tautoko ā-hauora 24 hāora i te rā. Ka rerekē pea ngā kaiwhakapā matua mō te tautoko ā-hauora puta noa i te motu. Ākene pea he tangata takitahi, he rōpū rānei tō kaiwhakapā, ka uru nei pea tō tākuta, tō kaiwhakarato hauora matua, hapori ā-rohe rānei. He nui tonu te hunga ka taea te noho pai mā te āwhinatanga o ngā hoa me te whānau, engari he mōhiohio anō, he āwhina hoki e wātea ana ina hiahiatia. Ina kīia koe kia noho taratahi, ka pātaitia mēnā ka hiahia tautoko, āwhina rānei koe. Ka taea e te nuinga o ngā tāngata te tiaki i a rātou anō. Engari tērā anō ētahi ka hiahia i ētahi mea pēnei i te kai. Ko Te Manatū Whakahiato Ora (MSD) te tira e whakarite ana i te tautoko, ā, e tūhonohono ana i ngā tāngata ki te ratonga tika hei āwhina i a rātou. Ina hiahia āwhina koe, mā MSD e tūhono atu i a koe ki te tangata tika. Tērā pea nō tētahi rōpū hapori, tari kāwanatanga, ratonga marae, tautoko rānei kua whakaritea e tētahi iwi. Mā rātou koe e waea ake ki te kōrero me pēhea tā rātou āwhina - kia whiwhi ai koutou ko tō whānau i te tautoko e tika ana ki te noho taratahi. Mēnā e noho taratahi ana, ā, e hiahia ana koe te tautoko, ka taea te waea atu ki te COVID Welfare Phone Line i 0800 512 337 . E tuwhera ana i ngā rā e whitu i te wiki. He mea nui tonu kia noho koe ki te kāinga kia hoki rā anō mai ō hua whakamātautau. Ki te kore e taea e koe te mahi i a koe e noho taratahi ana, ka taea pea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i te Short-term Absence Payment hei āwhina i a ia ki te utu i a koe. Mēnā e whakaatu ana tō whakamātautau kua pāngia koe, me noho taratahi rānei koe i te mea he pānga tata koe, ka taea pea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i te Leave Support Scheme. Ko te tikanga o tēnei he āwhina i a ia ki te utu tonu i a koe i a koe e noho taratahi ana. Mēnā he tākuhu koe, ā, kāore e taea te mahi i te wā e noho taratahi ana, ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ēnei utunga. Ka kitea ētahi atu mōhiohio i workandincome.govt.nz/employer-covid-support (external link) Ka whakapā atu tētahi ki a koe ki te whakamōhio atu mēnā kua whakaatu tō whakamātautau kua pāngia koe, ā, ki te tuku tautoko me te mōhiohio ki a koe. Ka kōrerorerotia tō hauora, toko i te ora me tō oranga. Tērā pea ko tō tākuta tēnei, he kaiwhakarato tauwhiro me te oranga, he kaiwhakarato Māori, o Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa, he rōpū hauora tūmatanui rānei. Mēnā ka taea e koe te noho haumaru i tō kāinga, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi pūhera manaaki, kei roto he tohutohu mō te tiaki-whaiaro, me pēhea hoki te whakapiki i tō ora. Kei roto hoki pea tētahi pulse oximeter ina hiahiatia ana. Mēnā he mōrearea iti tōu o te pāngia e te pokenga KOWHEORI taumaha, ā, he ngāwari noa ō tohumate, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi hihiranga hauora tuihono (he waea noa iho pea) ia rua rā. Mēnā he āhua kaha ō tohumate, ā, he āhua piki ake pea tō mōrearea, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi hihiratanga hauora tuihono ia rā mai i tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Ki te hiahia āwhina hauora kōhukihuki, kāore rānei i te tika tō whakangā, me wawe te waea atu ki 111 . Whakamōhiotia atu e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i tō waeatanga. Me auau te whakamātautau i te hunga katoa i tō kāinga ki te hihira mēnā kua pāngia rātou e te pokenga KOWHEORI-19. Ka whakamōhiotia koe āhea, pēhea, ā, ki hea hoki tēnei mahia ai. Ka whakahaeretia he aromatawai hauora e tētahi mātanga hauora i ngā rā 10 ki te 14 (kei runga i te āhua mēnā kua whiwhi kano ārai mate koe). Me wātea katoa i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i tō tinana e 72 hāora i mua i tō rā tuku, ā, me kaua tonu e whakaatu i ngā tohumate i muri iho. Mēnā ka whakaaetia, ka āhei koe ki te wehe i tō whare i te rā i muri mai. Ehara i te mea me whakamātautau koe. Mehemea i whakamātautauria koe, ka hua mai pea he hua tōrunga, engari ehara i te mea e pokea ana koe. Me noho kāinga katoa te hunga e noho ana i tō taha mō te roanga o te wā e noho taratahi ana koe (me ētahi atu o tō kāinga e pāngia ana). Kia tukuna mai te kēhi whakamutunga i te noho taratahi, ko te toenga o ngā mema o tō kāinga me noho taratahi tonu mō te tekau ngā rā. Ko te tikanga o tērā, he roa ake tā rātou noho taratahi i tō nohonga taratahi. Hei āwhina ki te whakaiti i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19, me: Noho tawhiti tonu i ētahi atu i tō kāinga. Mēnā ka taea e koe te karo i te tiri i ngā rūma, moenga rānei, te whakarite kai mā ētahi atu rānei, ka āwhina tēnei ki te whakaiti i te tūpono horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I ngā wā e taea ana, huakina ngā matapihi me ngā kūaha, e pupuhi ai te hau i tō whare. Me ūkui ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia ana e ētahi atu pērā i ngā katiwai me ngā papa kīhini ki te hopi, te wai me tētahi papanga. Kaua e tuari rīhi, pāokaoka, taora me ngā pera. Me horoi i ōu ake pueru. Kia auau te horoi i ō ringaringa, ā, me maremare, matihe rānei ki tō tuke, ki tētahi pepa aikiha rānei. Mēnā ka hiahia rongoā koe, whakapā atu ki tō tākuta, tō kēmehi pātata rānei ki te whakarite i ngā whakaritenga kia tukuna haumarutia ai ō rongoā ki tō kāinga. --- Section Separator --- Ko te nuinga o te hunga kua whiwhi i ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate, ā, ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, ka ngāwari noa te pānga o te māuiui, ā, ka tino hoki ora mai i ō rātou kāinga, i tētahi atu wāhi noho e tika ana rānei. Ko te āhua o te tiaki i roto i te hapori, ko te tautoko i te tangata e ngā kaiwhakarato tiaki ā-rohe, ki te whakarite i te whakatutukitanga o ā rātou hiahia hauora, toko i te ora, oranga hoki i te wā e whakamātūtū mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19. Ko te hunga katoa e whakaatu ana tō rātou whakamātautau kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, tae atu ki te hunga katoa e noho ana i ō rātou taha, me noho taratahi hoki hei āwhina ki te aukati i te horapatanga o te huaketo. E rua ngā huarahi o te noho taratahi ā-whaiaro – i te kāinga, i tētahi atu wāhi noho e tika ana rānei, i tētahi whare taratahi e whakahaeretia ana rānei. Ko ngā whare taratahi e whakahaeretia ana, kei ngā hōtēra i ētahi wāhi puta noa i Aotearoa, e taea ana e koe te noho taratahi mō te kore utu, me tō whānau hoki, mō te tekau rā, neke atu rānei. Mēnā he wāhi anō e taea ana e koe te whakauru atu, e whakaratoa ana rānei ki a koe, e āhua pai ana mōu ki te noho taratahi ā-whaiaro, ka taea e koe te noho taratahi i taua wāhi. Kia mōhio: mēnā e tino māuiui ana koe ka whiwhi koe i te maimoatanga i te hōhipera. Ina whakaatu tō whakamātautau kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, me noho taratahi koe i tō kāinga, i tētahi wāhi noho e tika ana rānei mō te tekau rā, neke atu rānei i te wā e whakamātūtū mai ana i te KOWHEORI-19. Me noho taratahi hoki te hunga katoa i tō kāinga noho mō te tekau rā neke atu rānei i te wā e whakamātūtū mai ana te tangata i whakaatu ai te whakamātautau kua pāngia ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ka whakamōhiotia koe mēnā ka roa ake i tēra. Kaua e: wehe atu i te wāhi e noho taratahi ana koe haere ki te mahi, kura, wāhi tūmatanui haere mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui, te haere i runga tēkehi rānei haere ki te tiki kai, rongoā rānei pōhiri manuhiri ki tō kāinga, engari ngā kaimahi hauora, hapori rānei e whakarato ana i te maimoatanga waiwai ki a koutou ko te hunga i tō kāinga haere ki tētahi toronga kano ārai mate. Mēnā he toronga kano ārai mate kua whakaritea, me waea atu ki te waea tāpui, haere mā runga ipurangi rānei ki te panoni i tō toronga haere ki tētahi wāhi tūmatanui ki te kori tinana – me kori i te kāinga anake. I te wā e tika ana, pātai ki tētahi hoa, whānau rānei ki te hoko kai māhau, engari kaua e kawea ki rō whare. Mēnā kāore e taea tēnei, me tono kai i runga ipurangi. Me whakarite kia waihotia ngā tukunga ki waho i tō kāinga, māhau tonu e kohi. Me mea noa te noho āmaimai, kohuki rānei mō te noho taratahi me te KOWHEORI-19. Ka whakaritea he tangata hauora hei whakapānga māhau, māna koe e whakapā putuputu ki a koe ki te tiro mēnā e noho haumaru ana koutou ko tō whānau, ā, e tautokona ana koutou, me te tuku ki a koe tētahi nama waea mō te tautoko ā-hauora 24 hāora i te rā. Ka rerekē pea ngā kaiwhakapā matua mō te tautoko ā-hauora puta noa i te motu. Ākene pea he tangata takitahi, he rōpū rānei tō kaiwhakapā, ka uru nei pea tō tākuta, tō kaiwhakarato hauora matua, hapori ā-rohe rānei. He nui tonu te hunga ka taea te noho pai mā te āwhinatanga o ngā hoa me te whānau, engari he mōhiohio anō, he āwhina hoki e wātea ana ina hiahiatia. Ina kīia koe kia noho taratahi, ka pātaitia mēnā ka hiahia tautoko, āwhina rānei koe. Ka taea e te nuinga o ngā tāngata te tiaki i a rātou anō. Engari tērā anō ētahi ka hiahia i ētahi mea pēnei i te kai. Ko Te Manatū Whakahiato Ora (MSD) te tira e whakarite ana i te tautoko, ā, e tūhonohono ana i ngā tāngata ki te ratonga tika hei āwhina i a rātou. Ina hiahia āwhina koe, mā MSD e tūhono atu i a koe ki te tangata tika. Tērā pea nō tētahi rōpū hapori, tari kāwanatanga, ratonga marae, tautoko rānei kua whakaritea e tētahi iwi. Mā rātou koe e waea ake ki te kōrero me pēhea tā rātou āwhina - kia whiwhi ai koutou ko tō whānau i te tautoko e tika ana ki te noho taratahi. Mēnā e noho taratahi ana, ā, e hiahia ana koe te tautoko, ka taea te waea atu ki te COVID Welfare Phone Line i 0800 512 337 . E tuwhera ana i ngā rā e whitu i te wiki. He mea nui tonu kia noho koe ki te kāinga kia hoki rā anō mai ō hua whakamātautau. Ki te kore e taea e koe te mahi i a koe e noho taratahi ana, ka taea pea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i te Short-term Absence Payment hei āwhina i a ia ki te utu i a koe. Mēnā e whakaatu ana tō whakamātautau kua pāngia koe, me noho taratahi rānei koe i te mea he pānga tata koe, ka taea pea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i te Leave Support Scheme. Ko te tikanga o tēnei he āwhina i a ia ki te utu tonu i a koe i a koe e noho taratahi ana. Mēnā he tākuhu koe, ā, kāore e taea te mahi i te wā e noho taratahi ana, ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ēnei utunga. Ka kitea ētahi atu mōhiohio i workandincome.govt.nz/employer-covid-support (external link) Ka whakapā atu tētahi ki a koe ki te whakamōhio atu mēnā kua whakaatu tō whakamātautau kua pāngia koe, ā, ki te tuku tautoko me te mōhiohio ki a koe. Ka kōrerorerotia tō hauora, toko i te ora me tō oranga. Tērā pea ko tō tākuta tēnei, he kaiwhakarato tauwhiro me te oranga, he kaiwhakarato Māori, o Te Moana-nui-a-Kiwa, he rōpū hauora tūmatanui rānei. Mēnā ka taea e koe te noho haumaru i tō kāinga, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi pūhera manaaki, kei roto he tohutohu mō te tiaki-whaiaro, me pēhea hoki te whakapiki i tō ora. Kei roto hoki pea tētahi pulse oximeter ina hiahiatia ana. Mēnā he mōrearea iti tōu o te pāngia e te pokenga KOWHEORI taumaha, ā, he ngāwari noa ō tohumate, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi hihiranga hauora tuihono (he waea noa iho pea) ia rua rā. Mēnā he āhua kaha ō tohumate, ā, he āhua piki ake pea tō mōrearea, ka whiwhi koe i tētahi hihiratanga hauora tuihono ia rā mai i tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Ki te hiahia āwhina hauora kōhukihuki, kāore rānei i te tika tō whakangā, me wawe te waea atu ki 111 . Whakamōhiotia atu e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i tō waeatanga. Me auau te whakamātautau i te hunga katoa i tō kāinga ki te hihira mēnā kua pāngia rātou e te pokenga KOWHEORI-19. Ka whakamōhiotia koe āhea, pēhea, ā, ki hea hoki tēnei mahia ai. Ka whakahaeretia he aromatawai hauora e tētahi mātanga hauora i ngā rā 10 ki te 14 (kei runga i te āhua mēnā kua whiwhi kano ārai mate koe). Me wātea katoa i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 i tō tinana e 72 hāora i mua i tō rā tuku, ā, me kaua tonu e whakaatu i ngā tohumate i muri iho. Mēnā ka whakaaetia, ka āhei koe ki te wehe i tō whare i te rā i muri mai. Ehara i te mea me whakamātautau koe. Mehemea i whakamātautauria koe, ka hua mai pea he hua tōrunga, engari ehara i te mea e pokea ana koe. Me noho kāinga katoa te hunga e noho ana i tō taha mō te roanga o te wā e noho taratahi ana koe (me ētahi atu o tō kāinga e pāngia ana). Kia tukuna mai te kēhi whakamutunga i te noho taratahi, ko te toenga o ngā mema o tō kāinga me noho taratahi tonu mō te tekau ngā rā. Ko te tikanga o tērā, he roa ake tā rātou noho taratahi i tō nohonga taratahi. Hei āwhina ki te whakaiti i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19, me: Noho tawhiti tonu i ētahi atu i tō kāinga. Mēnā ka taea e koe te karo i te tiri i ngā rūma, moenga rānei, te whakarite kai mā ētahi atu rānei, ka āwhina tēnei ki te whakaiti i te tūpono horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I ngā wā e taea ana, huakina ngā matapihi me ngā kūaha, e pupuhi ai te hau i tō whare. Me ūkui ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia ana e ētahi atu pērā i ngā katiwai me ngā papa kīhini ki te hopi, te wai me tētahi papanga. Kaua e tuari rīhi, pāokaoka, taora me ngā pera. Me horoi i ōu ake pueru. Kia auau te horoi i ō ringaringa, ā, me maremare, matihe rānei ki tō tuke, ki tētahi pepa aikiha rānei. Mēnā ka hiahia rongoā koe, whakapā atu ki tō tākuta, tō kēmehi pātata rānei ki te whakarite i ngā whakaritenga kia tukuna haumarutia ai ō rongoā ki tō kāinga. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā ataata | Videos --- Section Separator --- አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te hāereere | Travel Te tautoko | Support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā ataata | Videos Rama toru | Traffic lights Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te hāereere | Travel Te tautoko | Support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā ataata | Videos ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ngā tāruatanga koreutu o ā mātou rauemi me ngā huarawa mai i tā mātou Tomokanga Bluestar. (external link) Haere ki toolkit.covid19.govt.nz (external link) ka whakamahi i te pātene Login/Register ki te hanga pūkete. Whakamahia te āputa rapunga ki te whakauru kupu matua e hāngai ana ki te rauemi e rapu ana koe. He reo Pākehā te pae. Nō reira mēnā e kimi ana koe i ngā rauemi kua whakamāoritia, me rapu mā ngā kupu Pākehā (hei tauira, face coverings, contact tracing, testing, aha atu.) Ka taea hoki e koe te rapu i tō reo e kitea ai ngā rauemi katoa e wātea ana. Kia mutu tō pato ki te Search ka taea e koe te whakarei ake i ō hua mā ngā tātari takaiho. Kia kitea e koe tāu e hiahia ana, tīkina ake, tiria, tāpiritia rānei ki tō kete mēnā e tīkina ake ana e koe ngā tūemi maha. Mēnā he pātai āu, e hiahia āwhina ana rānei, īmēra ki COVID19Brand@dpmc.govt.nz Me tono i ngā huarawa kore utu mā tō pakihi, whakahaere hapori, takahanga rānei mā tā mātou rārangi tuihono, ā, ka tukua ngā rauemi hāngai ki a koe, tō pakihi, tō rōpū hapori rānei. Haere ki te Bluestar Portal. (external link) --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi. Ka taea hoki e koe te tono i ngā tāruatanga koreutu o ā mātou rauemi me ngā huarawa mai i tā mātou Tomokanga Bluestar. (external link) Haere ki toolkit.covid19.govt.nz (external link) ka whakamahi i te pātene Login/Register ki te hanga pūkete. Whakamahia te āputa rapunga ki te whakauru kupu matua e hāngai ana ki te rauemi e rapu ana koe. He reo Pākehā te pae. Nō reira mēnā e kimi ana koe i ngā rauemi kua whakamāoritia, me rapu mā ngā kupu Pākehā (hei tauira, face coverings, contact tracing, testing, aha atu.) Ka taea hoki e koe te rapu i tō reo e kitea ai ngā rauemi katoa e wātea ana. Kia mutu tō pato ki te Search ka taea e koe te whakarei ake i ō hua mā ngā tātari takaiho. Kia kitea e koe tāu e hiahia ana, tīkina ake, tiria, tāpiritia rānei ki tō kete mēnā e tīkina ake ana e koe ngā tūemi maha. Mēnā he pātai āu, e hiahia āwhina ana rānei, īmēra ki COVID19Brand@dpmc.govt.nz Me tono i ngā huarawa kore utu mā tō pakihi, whakahaere hapori, takahanga rānei mā tā mātou rārangi tuihono, ā, ka tukua ngā rauemi hāngai ki a koe, tō pakihi, tō rōpū hapori rānei. Haere ki te Bluestar Portal. (external link) --- Section Separator --- አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te hāereere | Travel Te tautoko | Support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā ataata | Videos Rama toru | Traffic lights Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te tiaki me te noho taratahi | Care and isolation Te hāereere | Travel Te tautoko | Support Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi | Posters and resources Ngā ataata | Videos ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā ārai kanohi me ngā maruhā | Face coverings and masks Te mau ārai kanohi | Wearing a face covering --- Section Separator --- Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Karaka me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Whero me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Karaka me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Whero me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Me mātua whai kia: mā maroke karukaru kore. mā maroke karukaru kore. I mua i tō mau i tō uwhi mata, horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tukuna kia tūpoki te uwhi mata i tō ihu me tō waha, ka whakakikīngia ai mā ngā here rānei, mā ngā koropewa ā-taringa rānei. Ko te uwhi mata me: tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā tūpoki katoa i tō ihu, i tō waha me tō kauwae hāneanea te mautanga, engari me piri hoki ki ngā taha o tō kanohi tuku kia māmā noa iho tō hā Horoia anō ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Parea te pānga ki te wāhanga o mua o tō uwhi mata, ki tō kanohi tonu rānei Parea te nekehanga o tō uwhi mata, tae atu ki te kumetanga ki raro iho i tō kauwae Whakakapia ki uwhi mata kē mehemea kua haukū, kua taretare, kua paruparu rānei. Horoia, whakamaroketia hoki ō ringaringa. Whakamahia ko te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). Tangohia tō uwhi mata. Tangohia mai i muri, ka kumea atu ai i tō kanohi. Whakamahia ngā koropewa rānei, wetekina rānei ngā here. Kaua e pā ki te wāhanga o mua o te uwhi mata, ki ō karu, ki tō ihu, ki tō waha hoki. Horoia rānei, rukea atu rānei tō uwhi mata. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia ngā uwhi mata kua hangā i te papanga mā te pūrere horoi kākahu me te hopi kia 60 tohurau te wera o te wai. Āta whakamaroketia i mua i te whakamahinga anō. Kaua e whakamahia tētahi uwhi mata e haukū ana. Rukea atu ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Raua atu ki tētahi ipu para e whai taupoki ana, ki tētahi pēke whai piringa rānei, ka whiua atu ai. Kaua e whakamahia anō, e whai rānei ki te patu i ngā huaketo o ngā uwhi mata e rangitahi nei te whakamahia. Horoia anō ō ringaringa mā te whakamahi i te: hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). hopi me te wai rānei patuero ā-ringa rānei (kia kaua e iti iho i te 60% te nui o te waipiro). --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā ārai kanohi me ngā maruhā | Face coverings and masks Ko wai te hunga kāore e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi? | Who does not need to wear a face covering? --- Section Separator --- E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Kia mahara koe ki tēnei āhuatanga. E whai āheinga tonu ana rātou ki ngā ratonga kai, kēmehi me ētahi atu ratonga. Mēnā e taea ana, ka akiakitia koe ki te mau i tētahi ārai kanohi. Ko te mau ārai kanohi kāore e hiahiatia: e ngā tamariki i raro i te 12 tau e ngā ākonga i runga pahi kura i ngā ratonga waka kawe pāhihi i waenga i Te Ika-a-Māui me Te Waipounamu i runga poti, kaipuke rānei kāore he wāhi tāparepare mā ngā pāhihi, hei tauira, ngā haerenga waka torohaki i runga haerenga rēti waka, ā-rōpū rānei i runga rerenga tūmataiti e ngā kaihautū waka, rererangi, kaimahi rānei o te ratonga mēnā kei tētahi wāhi tūwehe atu i ngā pāhihi, hei tauira ngā kaihautū rererangi, ngā kaihautū tereina rānei. Kāore hoki koe e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi mēnā: kāore i te haumaru, hei tauira, mēnā kāore e taea e te kaihautū te hautū haumaru i tētahi waka he ohotata he māuiuitanga hauora hinengaro, tinana rānei, he mate, he hauātanga rānei tōu kāore e tika ana kia mau i te ārai kanohi me whakapūmau koe i tō tuakiri me whakawhiti kōrero koe ki tētahi tangata turi, uaua rānei te rongo me kai rongoā koe me kai, me inu rānei koe mēnā e whakaaetia ana te inu me te kai kāore e herea ana e te ture E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Ki te kore e taea e koe te mau i tētahi, ka taea e koe te tiki kāri awere. Ka taea e koe te whakaatu i tō kāri awere i ngā wā e hiahia ana. He kāri awere i ngā ārai kanohi (external link) --- Section Separator --- E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Kia mahara koe ki tēnei āhuatanga. E whai āheinga tonu ana rātou ki ngā ratonga kai, kēmehi me ētahi atu ratonga. Mēnā e taea ana, ka akiakitia koe ki te mau i tētahi ārai kanohi. Ko te mau ārai kanohi kāore e hiahiatia: e ngā tamariki i raro i te 12 tau e ngā ākonga i runga pahi kura i ngā ratonga waka kawe pāhihi i waenga i Te Ika-a-Māui me Te Waipounamu i runga poti, kaipuke rānei kāore he wāhi tāparepare mā ngā pāhihi, hei tauira, ngā haerenga waka torohaki i runga haerenga rēti waka, ā-rōpū rānei i runga rerenga tūmataiti e ngā kaihautū waka, rererangi, kaimahi rānei o te ratonga mēnā kei tētahi wāhi tūwehe atu i ngā pāhihi, hei tauira ngā kaihautū rererangi, ngā kaihautū tereina rānei. Kāore hoki koe e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi mēnā: kāore i te haumaru, hei tauira, mēnā kāore e taea e te kaihautū te hautū haumaru i tētahi waka he ohotata he māuiuitanga hauora hinengaro, tinana rānei, he mate, he hauātanga rānei tōu kāore e tika ana kia mau i te ārai kanohi me whakapūmau koe i tō tuakiri me whakawhiti kōrero koe ki tētahi tangata turi, uaua rānei te rongo me kai rongoā koe me kai, me inu rānei koe mēnā e whakaaetia ana te inu me te kai kāore e herea ana e te ture E mōhio ana mātou kāore pea e āhei ētahi tāngata whai āhuatanga hauā, āhuatanga hauora rānei, te mau haumaru, hāneanea rānei i ngā ārai kanohi. Ki te kore e taea e koe te mau i tētahi, ka taea e koe te tiki kāri awere. Ka taea e koe te whakaatu i tō kāri awere i ngā wā e hiahia ana. He kāri awere i ngā ārai kanohi (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā pārongo mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Information about COVID-19 Te huaketo o te KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tohumate | The COVID-19 virus and symptoms --- Section Separator --- He mate te KOWHEORI-19 e ahu mai ana i te mate korona SARS-CoV-2. Ka pā kino ki ō pūkahukahu, arahau, me ētahi atu whēkau. Nō tētahi whānau huaketo nunui ngā mate korona e pā mai ai te mate. Arā, pērā i te whurū, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) me te Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). I kitea tuatahitia te SARS-CoV-2 i Haina, ā, ko te āhua nei i ahu mai i ngā kararehe. Kāore tonu i te mōhiotia i pēhea te whai pānga mai o te mate ki te tangata. Kua rerekē haere te huaketo i roto i te wā i tōna urutaunga ki te tangata. Ko ētahi o ēnei i rerekētanga, pērā i te Delta, ka māmā ake te hōrapa tēnā i te huaketo taketake, ā, ka kino te mate ka pā mai. Anei ētahi tohumate: he maremare hou, kei te kino kē atu rānei ka kirikā ka hē manawa mamae korokoro te matihe, ka rere te hūpē rānei kua kore e rongo te ihu mō tētahi wā, kua rerekē rānei te tāwara. Ehara i te mea e tohu ana ēnei tohumate kua pā mai te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te ōrite ēnei tohumate ki ētahi atu māuiui e tino kitea nei, pēnei i te rewharewha me te whurū. Tērā pea e tohu ana te hē manawa i te numonia, ā, me wawe te haere kia tirohia e te rata. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate o te rewharewha, whurū, KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 ka whiwhi tohutohu mō te whiwhi aromatawai. Ētahi tohumate kāore e tino kitea Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate kāore e tino kitea ka pā mai anake ko te: mate tikotiko ka ānini te māhunga mamae uaua, mamae tinana rānei whakapairuaki ruaki hūhi — he auhi, he mate, he maihi rānei mamae uma mamae puku mamae pona pōkaikaha me te kārangi. I ētahi wā he tata ki te 14 rā kātahi anō ka puta ngā tohumate i te tangata kua pāngia. Ka taea te tuku te huaketo ki ētahi atu tae atu ki te rua rā i mua i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka taea te tuku ki tētahi atu i mua i te mōhiotanga o te tangata kei a ia te KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ka hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 mai i tētahi ki tētahi. Ina whakahā, kōrero, maremare, matihe, waiata rānei te tangata mate, ka hōrapa pea ngā korakora kei roto te huaketo. He nui ake te mōrea o te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19: kei ngā wāhi kua katia kāore i te pai te rere o te hau i ngā wāhi he maha ngā tāngata he wāhi e pātata ana ngā tāngata, pērā i ngā kōrerorero e tata ana te tangata, te waiata, te hāparangi rānei. He iti iho te mōrea i waho, ā, he tokoiti ake ngā tāngata, mēnā e tāwhitiwhiti ana tētahi i tētahi. Ka taea e ēnei mahi māmā te whakapōturi te hōrapa o te huaketo me te āwhina ki te whakamaru i a koe, tō whānau, tō hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua pā mai te rewharewha, te whurū, ngā tohumate COVID-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki tō rata, Healthline rānei mō te koreutu i 0800 358 5453 . Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me mau ārai kanohi ina hiahiatia, ina uaua rānei te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Me mau haere tonu koe ki ngā wāhi i haere koe mā te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, mā ngā tuhituhi whai taipitopito. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. --- Section Separator --- He mate te KOWHEORI-19 e ahu mai ana i te mate korona SARS-CoV-2. Ka pā kino ki ō pūkahukahu, arahau, me ētahi atu whēkau. Nō tētahi whānau huaketo nunui ngā mate korona e pā mai ai te mate. Arā, pērā i te whurū, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) me te Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). I kitea tuatahitia te SARS-CoV-2 i Haina, ā, ko te āhua nei i ahu mai i ngā kararehe. Kāore tonu i te mōhiotia i pēhea te whai pānga mai o te mate ki te tangata. Kua rerekē haere te huaketo i roto i te wā i tōna urutaunga ki te tangata. Ko ētahi o ēnei i rerekētanga, pērā i te Delta, ka māmā ake te hōrapa tēnā i te huaketo taketake, ā, ka kino te mate ka pā mai. Anei ētahi tohumate: he maremare hou, kei te kino kē atu rānei ka kirikā ka hē manawa mamae korokoro te matihe, ka rere te hūpē rānei kua kore e rongo te ihu mō tētahi wā, kua rerekē rānei te tāwara. Ehara i te mea e tohu ana ēnei tohumate kua pā mai te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te ōrite ēnei tohumate ki ētahi atu māuiui e tino kitea nei, pēnei i te rewharewha me te whurū. Tērā pea e tohu ana te hē manawa i te numonia, ā, me wawe te haere kia tirohia e te rata. Mēnā ka pā mai ngā tohumate o te rewharewha, whurū, KOWHEORI-19 rānei me waea atu ki tō rata, ki Healthline rānei i 0800 358 5453 ka whiwhi tohutohu mō te whiwhi aromatawai. Ētahi tohumate kāore e tino kitea Ko ētahi o ngā tohumate kāore e tino kitea ka pā mai anake ko te: mate tikotiko ka ānini te māhunga mamae uaua, mamae tinana rānei whakapairuaki ruaki hūhi — he auhi, he mate, he maihi rānei mamae uma mamae puku mamae pona pōkaikaha me te kārangi. I ētahi wā he tata ki te 14 rā kātahi anō ka puta ngā tohumate i te tangata kua pāngia. Ka taea te tuku te huaketo ki ētahi atu tae atu ki te rua rā i mua i te pānga mai o ngā tohumate. Ko te tikanga o tēnei ka taea te tuku ki tētahi atu i mua i te mōhiotanga o te tangata kei a ia te KOWHEORI-19. Me kī ka hōrapa te KOWHEORI-19 mai i tētahi ki tētahi. Ina whakahā, kōrero, maremare, matihe, waiata rānei te tangata mate, ka hōrapa pea ngā korakora kei roto te huaketo. He nui ake te mōrea o te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19: kei ngā wāhi kua katia kāore i te pai te rere o te hau i ngā wāhi he maha ngā tāngata he wāhi e pātata ana ngā tāngata, pērā i ngā kōrerorero e tata ana te tangata, te waiata, te hāparangi rānei. He iti iho te mōrea i waho, ā, he tokoiti ake ngā tāngata, mēnā e tāwhitiwhiti ana tētahi i tētahi. Ka taea e ēnei mahi māmā te whakapōturi te hōrapa o te huaketo me te āwhina ki te whakamaru i a koe, tō whānau, tō hapori hoki mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kua pā mai te rewharewha, te whurū, ngā tohumate COVID-19 rānei, me noho ki te kāinga ka waea atu ki tō rata, Healthline rānei mō te koreutu i 0800 358 5453 . Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me mau ārai kanohi ina hiahiatia, ina uaua rānei te noho tawhiti i ētahi atu. Me mau haere tonu koe ki ngā wāhi i haere koe mā te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer, mā ngā tuhituhi whai taipitopito. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā pārongo mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Information about COVID-19 He mea nui te whai i te pārongo tika | Getting the right information matters --- Section Separator --- He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: ahu mai i tētahi e huna nei tōna ingoa ake kī mai he pārongo kei a ia nō roto i ngā pokapū kāwanatanga, engari kāore e tautuhia te puna kī mai e whāngai pārongo ana ia kua hunaia i te marea, kāore rānei ngā āpiha e pīrangi nei kia mōhiotia e koe kī mai i te nuinga o te wā, ko te ‘kōrero houtupu’ e kino ake ana i te pārongo e whaimana ana. I tētahi wā pēnei: kia mataara koe ki ngā pārongo ka arohia e koe tirohia te kounga o te pārongo i mua i tō tuku ki ētahi atu. Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) --- Section Separator --- He wā ōna ka whakaputaina he pārongo hei whakapōhēhē, hei whakahiwa rānei i te tangata. Ka pēnei ana te whakaputaina, ka kīia i ōna wā he rongo teka rānei, he whakapōhēhētanga rānei, he ariā kara rānei. Ko te whakapōhēhētanga tētahi hoariri o tātou i te wā me ngātahi kē te mahi hei patu i te huaketo. Mā te whakapōhēhētanga pea e hōrapa ai te wehi rānei, te rangirua rānei, e aukati ai rānei tā te tangata mahi i te mahi e tika ana. Tē taea e tātou te whakapōhēhētanga te whakakore, engari e kaha ana tātou ki te āwhina i a tātou anō kia kitea ai taua āhuatanga. He rite tonu tana: ahu mai i tētahi e huna nei tōna ingoa ake kī mai he pārongo kei a ia nō roto i ngā pokapū kāwanatanga, engari kāore e tautuhia te puna kī mai e whāngai pārongo ana ia kua hunaia i te marea, kāore rānei ngā āpiha e pīrangi nei kia mōhiotia e koe kī mai i te nuinga o te wā, ko te ‘kōrero houtupu’ e kino ake ana i te pārongo e whaimana ana. I tētahi wā pēnei: kia mataara koe ki ngā pārongo ka arohia e koe tirohia te kounga o te pārongo i mua i tō tuku ki ētahi atu. Ko ngā kōrero pono hei whai māu kei ā te kāwanatanga kōrero whakarāpopoto ki te ao pāpāho, kei ana pae tukutuku, kei ana hōngere pae pāpori hoki. Ko ngā kōrero hei āwhina kia mārama, kia tautuhia hoki ngā rongo teka kei konei (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā pārongo mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Information about COVID-19 Te momo Delta | The Delta variant --- Section Separator --- He tikanga noa te huringa, te irakētanga rānei o ngā wheori. Kua rerekē te āhua o te wheori KOWHEORI-19 i te hekenga o te wā, i a ia e urutau ana ki te tangata. Nā tēnei i hua mai ai ngā momo hou o te wheori, tae atu ki te momo Delta. Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. Kua tere te hora puta noa i te ao o te momo Delta, ā, koinei tonu te momo matua i ngā whenua maha. Koinei te taurangi mama rawa ki te whakawhiti, otirā he māmā ake tana horanga ki tērā o te momo tuatahi o te wheori KOWHEORI-19, me ētahi atu momo taurangi. He rerekē te Delta i te mea mō ngā tāngata e pāngia ana: ka kino ake te whanaketanga o ngā māuiuitanga KOWHEORI-19 i ētahi atu momo o te wheori he nui ake te mōrearea ka whakaurua atu ki rō hōhipera te āhua nei he nui ake te kawenga o te wheori (he kawenga wheori nui ake) ā, he roa ake te wā e kawea ana, tērā i ētahi atu momo kāore pea ōna tohumate (he tohumate-kore) ina maunoa taua mate he nui ake te tūpono whakapoke i ētahi atu - ko te whakatau tata, ko te toharite, kotahi te tangata e pokea ana e te Delta, tērā pea ka tuku ki te 5, 6 tāngata atu anō rānei ka poto ake pea te wā mai i te whakaraerae ki te wheori me te kitenga o ngā tohumate tuatahi. Mā te kitenga wawe i ngā kēhi, te whai i ngā tapuwae, me te whakataratahi i ngā kēhi me ā rātou pānga, he waiwai ki te whakamutu i te horanga o ngā momo katoa o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e tātou te takahi wawe atu i ngā pakarutanga ki ngā hapori mā te: Whai i ngā ture Pae Mataara . Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā e herea ana e ngā ture Pae Mataara. Te noho tawhiti ā-tinana i te 2m mēnā ka taea. Te noho ki te kāinga mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu me te waea atu ki Healthline i runga i te 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu mō te rapu whakamātautau . Te whai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te matawai i ngā waehere QR, mā te tuhi rānei i ngā tuhipoka āmiki. Mā te whakakā te whaiwhai hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer. Mā te whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate e rua, ka whai ārainga nui koe i te pokenga Delta, ā, he ārainga nui ake hoki i te mate taumaha, te noho hōhipera me te mate tonu atu. I tēnei wā e whakaatu ana ngā taunakitanga, he 88% te whaihuatanga o ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te mate i te pokenga Delta. Ko te āraitanga i te urunga ki te hōhipera nā te pokenga Delta, he āhua 96%. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 ) ki te whakarite tāpui. He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Kāore tētahi kano āraimate e eke ki te 100% te whaihuatanga, nō reira he tūponotanga anō kei pāngia tētahi tangata whai kano ārai mate ki te momo Delta, me te tuku i te wheori ki ētahi atu. Nō reira me whakamahi i ngā āhuatanga katoa e wātea ana, tae atu ki te kano ārai mate, ki te tiaki i a tātou me ō tātou hapori i te mate. --- Section Separator --- He tikanga noa te huringa, te irakētanga rānei o ngā wheori. Kua rerekē te āhua o te wheori KOWHEORI-19 i te hekenga o te wā, i a ia e urutau ana ki te tangata. Nā tēnei i hua mai ai ngā momo hou o te wheori, tae atu ki te momo Delta. Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. Kua tere te hora puta noa i te ao o te momo Delta, ā, koinei tonu te momo matua i ngā whenua maha. Koinei te taurangi mama rawa ki te whakawhiti, otirā he māmā ake tana horanga ki tērā o te momo tuatahi o te wheori KOWHEORI-19, me ētahi atu momo taurangi. He rerekē te Delta i te mea mō ngā tāngata e pāngia ana: ka kino ake te whanaketanga o ngā māuiuitanga KOWHEORI-19 i ētahi atu momo o te wheori he nui ake te mōrearea ka whakaurua atu ki rō hōhipera te āhua nei he nui ake te kawenga o te wheori (he kawenga wheori nui ake) ā, he roa ake te wā e kawea ana, tērā i ētahi atu momo kāore pea ōna tohumate (he tohumate-kore) ina maunoa taua mate he nui ake te tūpono whakapoke i ētahi atu - ko te whakatau tata, ko te toharite, kotahi te tangata e pokea ana e te Delta, tērā pea ka tuku ki te 5, 6 tāngata atu anō rānei ka poto ake pea te wā mai i te whakaraerae ki te wheori me te kitenga o ngā tohumate tuatahi. Mā te kitenga wawe i ngā kēhi, te whai i ngā tapuwae, me te whakataratahi i ngā kēhi me ā rātou pānga, he waiwai ki te whakamutu i te horanga o ngā momo katoa o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e tātou te takahi wawe atu i ngā pakarutanga ki ngā hapori mā te: Whai i ngā ture Pae Mataara . Me mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā e herea ana e ngā ture Pae Mataara. Te noho tawhiti ā-tinana i te 2m mēnā ka taea. Te noho ki te kāinga mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu me te waea atu ki Healthline i runga i te 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu mō te rapu whakamātautau . Te whai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te whakamahi i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te matawai i ngā waehere QR, mā te tuhi rānei i ngā tuhipoka āmiki. Mā te whakakā te whaiwhai hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer. Mā te whiwhi i ngā kano ārai mate e rua, ka whai ārainga nui koe i te pokenga Delta, ā, he ārainga nui ake hoki i te mate taumaha, te noho hōhipera me te mate tonu atu. I tēnei wā e whakaatu ana ngā taunakitanga, he 88% te whaihuatanga o ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer i te mate i te pokenga Delta. Ko te āraitanga i te urunga ki te hōhipera nā te pokenga Delta, he āhua 96%. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. Haere ki Book My Vaccine (external link) waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ( 0800 28 29 26 ) ki te whakarite tāpui. He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Kāore tētahi kano āraimate e eke ki te 100% te whaihuatanga, nō reira he tūponotanga anō kei pāngia tētahi tangata whai kano ārai mate ki te momo Delta, me te tuku i te wheori ki ētahi atu. Nō reira me whakamahi i ngā āhuatanga katoa e wātea ana, tae atu ki te kano ārai mate, ki te tiaki i a tātou me ō tātou hapori i te mate. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Kua rite tō kāinga ina pāngia tētahi e te KOWHEORI-19? | Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? --- Section Separator --- Kāore e kore ka kitea he kēhi tōrunga o te KOWHEORI-19 i tō hapori. Ka wātea tonu te pūnaha tiaki hauora mō te hunga e hiahia ana i tā mātou āwhina engari ko te nuinga o te hunga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, e kore e mate ki te noho ki te hōhipera, ā, ka āhei ki te noho taratahi haumaru i te kāinga. Me noho i te kāinga te hunga katoa ka whiwhi i te whakamātautau e whakaatu ana kua pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 me ērā hoki e noho ana i tō rātou kāinga, ā, me kaua e whakapā ki ētahi atu, tae ake ki te whānau. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ko te tangata, ngā whakawhiti kōrerorero, ngā hononga me te mōhio me aha. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ka taea e tō whānau me te hapori te āwhina tētahi i tētahi mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Whakamahia te rārangi i raro nei ki te whakarite kōrerorero, ki te whakatau hoki he pēhea nei tō rite ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka whakarite mahere mō tō kāinga. Whakaritea ka aha koe mēnā ka māuiui tētahi Tautuhia ngā tāngata i waho atu i tō kāinga ka taea te āwhina i a koe mēnā e noho taratahi ana tō whānau, hei tauira, ki te whakataka kai, ētahi atu mea, mō te tautoko toko i te ora rānei. Ka taea pea e ngā ratonga pēnei i te Student Volunteer Army te āwhina i a koe me ngā whakatakanga, ā, ka taea pea e Te Tari Hiranga Tangata te āwhina me ngā utunga. He tāngata anō i tō kāinga tērā pea e hiahiatia ana he āwhina tāpiri, he tautoko rānei? Kōrero ki tētahi kaitiaki i rō whare kia mātua whakarite koe e whakaae ana ia ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i te hiahia ki te noho taratahi. Me whakarite mahere mēnā he tikanga tiri tamaiti tāu. Kōrero ki tō kura, tō mahi, ngā rōpū me ngā whatunga hapori ki te rapu he aha tā rātou mahere - e hiahia ana rātou i ētahi mea i a koe? Ka taea e rātou te tautoko i a koe? Whakarite me pēhea te whakamōhio i ētahi atu, e noho taratahi ana tō kāinga - tērā pea he tohu i tō kūaha, tō taiapa rānei. Whakaritea he wāhi i waho i tō kūaha me te patuero, pene me te pepa, he waehere QR rānei kia taea e te hunga te tuhi i ā rātou taipitopito mēnā e āwhina ana rātou me ngā takanga pākore. Mēnā e āwhina ana ētahi me ngā whakatakanga pākore, ka hiahia koe kia pātuhi rātou, tuku karere rānei i mua i te taenga ake? Pēhia te haona o te motukā mai i te kēti? Me haere mā tētahi tomokanga kua whakaaetia? Me tuhi i ngā tohutohu ā-kāinga ka taea e tētahi atu te whai mēnā ka māuiui koe. Me uru ngā tohutohu mō te whāngai mōkai, utu nama, te whāngai i ngā tipu hoki. Me whai whakaaro, me kōrero rānei me pēhea te whakaiti i te tūpono tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 puta noa i tō kāinga. Ka taea e koe te whakaiti i ngā wāhi tiri, te whakanui rānei i te mahi horoi? Tirohia ngā mea e hiahiatia ana e koe hei āwhina i a koe me te hunga kei tō taha Whakaritea he rārangi o ngā mōhiohio o te whānau - me uru ngā ingoa, te pakeke, ngā nama tautuhi hauora (NHI), ngā āhuatanga hauora me ngā rongoā e kaingia ana, ngā rongoā rānei ka hiahia ia tangata katoa. Me uru ngā mōhiohio whakapā ohotata pēnei i tō tākuta, ngā hāora pō, me ētahi atu tari tautoko. Kohia ngā mea e pārekareka ana ki a koe. He aha ētahi āwhinatanga hei aukati i te takeotanga mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe? Me mātua whakarite kia mōhio ngā tino tāngata me aha rātou Me whakarite hui ā-kainga, kia mātua mōhio te katoa (tae atu ki ngā mea tamariki) me aha rātou, me pēhea te tautoko tētahi i tētahi, ā, me whakapā atu ki a wai mēnā ka māuiuitia tētahi, ka kawea rānei ki te hōhipera. Tiria tō mahere ki te whānau whānui, ngā hoa noho tata me ngā manuhiri auau, ā, kōrero ki a rātou he aha tō hiahia mai i a rātou, ā, me pēhea tā koutou tautoko tētahi i tētahi. Kei roto tātou katoa i tēnei tū āhua, ā, ka puta tahi tātou i tēnei tū āhua Me noho tūhonohono - me huihui tonu ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Mēnā e noho taratahi ana, me tū ēnei hui i runga ipurangi, mā te waea rānei. Tautokona ō hoa, tō whānau me ō hoamahi ki te whakarite i ā rātou ake mahere kia takatū ai. Me rapu e aha ana tō hapori - he rōpū anō kei te taka kai hei whakamātao, e tiri ana i ngā tīwhiri whakamahere, e mōhio ana rānei ki ngā karere o te wā? --- Section Separator --- Kāore e kore ka kitea he kēhi tōrunga o te KOWHEORI-19 i tō hapori. Ka wātea tonu te pūnaha tiaki hauora mō te hunga e hiahia ana i tā mātou āwhina engari ko te nuinga o te hunga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, e kore e mate ki te noho ki te hōhipera, ā, ka āhei ki te noho taratahi haumaru i te kāinga. Me noho i te kāinga te hunga katoa ka whiwhi i te whakamātautau e whakaatu ana kua pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 me ērā hoki e noho ana i tō rātou kāinga, ā, me kaua e whakapā ki ētahi atu, tae ake ki te whānau. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ko te tangata, ngā whakawhiti kōrerorero, ngā hononga me te mōhio me aha. Ko te tikanga o te noho rite, ka taea e tō whānau me te hapori te āwhina tētahi i tētahi mēnā e hiahiatia ana. Whakamahia te rārangi i raro nei ki te whakarite kōrerorero, ki te whakatau hoki he pēhea nei tō rite ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka whakarite mahere mō tō kāinga. Whakaritea ka aha koe mēnā ka māuiui tētahi Tautuhia ngā tāngata i waho atu i tō kāinga ka taea te āwhina i a koe mēnā e noho taratahi ana tō whānau, hei tauira, ki te whakataka kai, ētahi atu mea, mō te tautoko toko i te ora rānei. Ka taea pea e ngā ratonga pēnei i te Student Volunteer Army te āwhina i a koe me ngā whakatakanga, ā, ka taea pea e Te Tari Hiranga Tangata te āwhina me ngā utunga. He tāngata anō i tō kāinga tērā pea e hiahiatia ana he āwhina tāpiri, he tautoko rānei? Kōrero ki tētahi kaitiaki i rō whare kia mātua whakarite koe e whakaae ana ia ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i te hiahia ki te noho taratahi. Me whakarite mahere mēnā he tikanga tiri tamaiti tāu. Kōrero ki tō kura, tō mahi, ngā rōpū me ngā whatunga hapori ki te rapu he aha tā rātou mahere - e hiahia ana rātou i ētahi mea i a koe? Ka taea e rātou te tautoko i a koe? Whakarite me pēhea te whakamōhio i ētahi atu, e noho taratahi ana tō kāinga - tērā pea he tohu i tō kūaha, tō taiapa rānei. Whakaritea he wāhi i waho i tō kūaha me te patuero, pene me te pepa, he waehere QR rānei kia taea e te hunga te tuhi i ā rātou taipitopito mēnā e āwhina ana rātou me ngā takanga pākore. Mēnā e āwhina ana ētahi me ngā whakatakanga pākore, ka hiahia koe kia pātuhi rātou, tuku karere rānei i mua i te taenga ake? Pēhia te haona o te motukā mai i te kēti? Me haere mā tētahi tomokanga kua whakaaetia? Me tuhi i ngā tohutohu ā-kāinga ka taea e tētahi atu te whai mēnā ka māuiui koe. Me uru ngā tohutohu mō te whāngai mōkai, utu nama, te whāngai i ngā tipu hoki. Me whai whakaaro, me kōrero rānei me pēhea te whakaiti i te tūpono tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 puta noa i tō kāinga. Ka taea e koe te whakaiti i ngā wāhi tiri, te whakanui rānei i te mahi horoi? Tirohia ngā mea e hiahiatia ana e koe hei āwhina i a koe me te hunga kei tō taha Whakaritea he rārangi o ngā mōhiohio o te whānau - me uru ngā ingoa, te pakeke, ngā nama tautuhi hauora (NHI), ngā āhuatanga hauora me ngā rongoā e kaingia ana, ngā rongoā rānei ka hiahia ia tangata katoa. Me uru ngā mōhiohio whakapā ohotata pēnei i tō tākuta, ngā hāora pō, me ētahi atu tari tautoko. Kohia ngā mea e pārekareka ana ki a koe. He aha ētahi āwhinatanga hei aukati i te takeotanga mēnā e noho taratahi ana koe? Me mātua whakarite kia mōhio ngā tino tāngata me aha rātou Me whakarite hui ā-kainga, kia mātua mōhio te katoa (tae atu ki ngā mea tamariki) me aha rātou, me pēhea te tautoko tētahi i tētahi, ā, me whakapā atu ki a wai mēnā ka māuiuitia tētahi, ka kawea rānei ki te hōhipera. Tiria tō mahere ki te whānau whānui, ngā hoa noho tata me ngā manuhiri auau, ā, kōrero ki a rātou he aha tō hiahia mai i a rātou, ā, me pēhea tā koutou tautoko tētahi i tētahi. Kei roto tātou katoa i tēnei tū āhua, ā, ka puta tahi tātou i tēnei tū āhua Me noho tūhonohono - me huihui tonu ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Mēnā e noho taratahi ana, me tū ēnei hui i runga ipurangi, mā te waea rānei. Tautokona ō hoa, tō whānau me ō hoamahi ki te whakarite i ā rātou ake mahere kia takatū ai. Me rapu e aha ana tō hapori - he rōpū anō kei te taka kai hei whakamātao, e tiri ana i ngā tīwhiri whakamahere, e mōhio ana rānei ki ngā karere o te wā? --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tautoko | Support E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tautoko | Support Te toro atu ki ngā kai, ki ngā mea waiwai rānei | Access to food or essential items --- Section Separator --- Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Mō ngā pouaka kai ohauru haere ki: My Food Bag (external link) ki Hello Fresh (external link) rānei Mō ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha haere ki: Countdown (external link) ki New World (external link) rānei. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Ko te tikanga me pānga kore ngā kawenga, me paetata hoki. Mēnā kei te kawe rawa koe, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti, me te mau ārai waha. Mēnā ka kawea atu ō rawa, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti i te hunga kawe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, horoia me te patuero i o ringa kia mutu te whakaputu i ngā kai. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko pūtea KOWHEORI-19 i te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 ki te kite i ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe. Haere ki: www.workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (mō ētahi atu mōhiohio) my.msd.govt.nz (external link) (hei tono tuihono ki Te Hiranga Tangata) 0800 559 009 (MSD Waea Whānui) 0800 552 002 (MSD Kaumātua 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Ngā Ākonga StudyLink) COVID-19 Financial Support Tool (te rauemi PUtea Tautoko KOWHEORI-19) Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, kāore rānei e taea te puta atu i tō kāinga ki te hoko kai, ngā rawa waiwai rānei, ka āhei koe ki te tono atu ki tō whānau, ō hoa, ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe rānei ki te kawe atu i ngā rawa me ngā kai ki a koe. Kōrero ki ō whatunga tautoko pērā i tō whānau, ō hoa, me ngā tāngata e noho pātata ana ki a koe kia kite mēnā e taea ana te kawe atu i ngā mea waiwai ki a koe. Whakamātauria ngā ratonga kawe kai pērā i ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha, ngā pūhera kai, ngā kai whakakōpaka kua tunua kētia, ngā pouaka kai ohauru, tētahi atu ratonga kawe kai rānei: Mō ngā pouaka kai ohauru haere ki: My Food Bag (external link) ki Hello Fresh (external link) rānei Mō ngā kawenga kai a te hokomaha haere ki: Countdown (external link) ki New World (external link) rānei. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te ratonga pāwhiri me te tiki atu o tō hokomaha, me te tono atu i tētahi hoa noho tata, whanaunga, tangata e noho pātata ana ki te kawe atu i ngā kai ki a koe. Whakapā atu ki te hokomaha tata, te hokomaha iti rānei kia mōhio mēnā e kawe atu ana i ngā kai, ā, me pēhea te tono atu. Tērā pea kua rāhuitia e te hokomaha ētahi tūranga motuhake mō ngā tāngata e hiahia ana ki te hokohoko tuihono. Ko te tikanga me pānga kore ngā kawenga, me paetata hoki. Mēnā kei te kawe rawa koe, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti, me te mau ārai waha. Mēnā ka kawea atu ō rawa, kia maumahara me noho wehe e 2 mita te tawhiti i te hunga kawe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, horoia me te patuero i o ringa kia mutu te whakaputu i ngā kai. Haere ki: www.covid19.govt.nz/about-this-site/contact-and-support Ki te hiahia āwhina ā-pūtea koe ki te hoko kai, ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina. Haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Hiranga Tangata mō ngā tautoko ā-pūtea kōhukihuki me ngā hiahia haere tonu. Ka āhei koe ki te tono tuihono mō tētahi takuhe matua me te tirotiro i tō āhei atu ki ngā āwhina e pā ana ki te kai. Ka taea hoki e koe te whakamahi i te utauta tautoko pūtea KOWHEORI-19 i te paetukutuku o Unite Against COVID-19 ki te kite i ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe. Haere ki: www.workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (mō ētahi atu mōhiohio) my.msd.govt.nz (external link) (hei tono tuihono ki Te Hiranga Tangata) 0800 559 009 (MSD Waea Whānui) 0800 552 002 (MSD Kaumātua 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Ngā Ākonga StudyLink) COVID-19 Financial Support Tool (te rauemi PUtea Tautoko KOWHEORI-19) Ka kitea tō pātaka koha kai ā-rohe mā te tirotiro i te paetukutuku Papatohu Ratonga Whānau: Paetukutuku Rārangi Ratonga Whānau (external link) Mēnā kua ngana koe, ā, kāore e taea te uru ki te tautoko mā tētahi o ngā kōwhiringa i runga ake nei, whakapā atu ki tō Rōpū Rākau Whakamarumaru tata (CDEM). Haere ki: www.civildefence.govt.nz/find-your-civil-defence-group (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tautoko | Support He Pūtea Āwhina i Ngā Kaipakihi | Financial support for businesses --- Section Separator --- Kua whakaritea e Te Hiranga Tangata he Tauwaea Whakaara ( 0800 559 009 ) hei manaaki i ngā hapori kua raru nei. Tērā ētahi āwhinatanga kaipakihi a Te Hiranga Tangata hei torotoro. Mēnā kua kīia kia noho whakamohoao ō kaimahi, ā, kāore hoki e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ka taea e koe te tono pūtea hei utu tonu i a rātou. He pārongo mō tētahi Pūtea Āwhina hou hei āwhina i ngā kaipakihi kua heke nei ā rātou moni whiwhi i runga i te huringa o ngā Pae Mataara Mate Korona. Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto – E wātea ana te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto Mate Korona ki ngā kaipakihi, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, hei āwhina ki te utu i ō rātou kaimahi kāore nei e taea te mahi i te kāinga i a rātou e tatari ana kia whakahokia mai ō rātou whakamātaunga Mate Korona. Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā – E whai wāhi ana ki te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā ko ngā kaimahi e rite ana, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, kāore e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ā, kua pāngia nei e te momo māuiui, hei tauira, kua pāngia e te Mate Korona, kua kīia ai rānei he ‘hoa tata’, ā, me noho whakamohoao ki te kāinga mō ngā rā 14. Pūtea Whakaara – He mea āwhina te Pūtea Whakaara a Te Tari Tāke i ngā kaipakihi kua raru nei i te nui haere o ngā putanga Pae Mataara. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Āwhina, te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto, me te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Tari Tāke (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Whakaara. He āwhinatanga kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata, whakapā atu ki te pokapū i 0800 559 009 me MyMSD E puare ana ngā pokapū o Te Hiranga Tangata i ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2, e katia ana i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4. Ka whakahaeretia ā-waeahia ngā whakaritenga i raro i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4, i ngā wā e rite ana. Ka rite tonu ngā whakaritenga mō ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2. Ka utua tonutia ngā utu e rite ana e Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka whakamāramatia ngā utu e wātea ana i te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) . Kei te wātea hoki ēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. --- Section Separator --- Kua whakaritea e Te Hiranga Tangata he Tauwaea Whakaara ( 0800 559 009 ) hei manaaki i ngā hapori kua raru nei. Tērā ētahi āwhinatanga kaipakihi a Te Hiranga Tangata hei torotoro. Mēnā kua kīia kia noho whakamohoao ō kaimahi, ā, kāore hoki e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ka taea e koe te tono pūtea hei utu tonu i a rātou. He pārongo mō tētahi Pūtea Āwhina hou hei āwhina i ngā kaipakihi kua heke nei ā rātou moni whiwhi i runga i te huringa o ngā Pae Mataara Mate Korona. Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto – E wātea ana te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto Mate Korona ki ngā kaipakihi, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, hei āwhina ki te utu i ō rātou kaimahi kāore nei e taea te mahi i te kāinga i a rātou e tatari ana kia whakahokia mai ō rātou whakamātaunga Mate Korona. Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā – E whai wāhi ana ki te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā ko ngā kaimahi e rite ana, tae atu hoki ki te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō, kāore e taea te mahi i te kāinga, ā, kua pāngia nei e te momo māuiui, hei tauira, kua pāngia e te Mate Korona, kua kīia ai rānei he ‘hoa tata’, ā, me noho whakamohoao ki te kāinga mō ngā rā 14. Pūtea Whakaara – He mea āwhina te Pūtea Whakaara a Te Tari Tāke i ngā kaipakihi kua raru nei i te nui haere o ngā putanga Pae Mataara. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Āwhina, te Utu Ngaronga Wā Poto, me te Kaupapa Āwhina Rangi Whakatā. Kei te pae tukutuku o Te Tari Tāke (external link) ngā kōrero mō te Pūtea Whakaara. He āwhinatanga kei te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata, whakapā atu ki te pokapū i 0800 559 009 me MyMSD E puare ana ngā pokapū o Te Hiranga Tangata i ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2, e katia ana i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4. Ka whakahaeretia ā-waeahia ngā whakaritenga i raro i ngā Pae Mataara 3 me te 4, i ngā wā e rite ana. Ka rite tonu ngā whakaritenga mō ngā Pae Mataara 1 me te 2. Ka utua tonutia ngā utu e rite ana e Te Hiranga Tangata. Ka whakamāramatia ngā utu e wātea ana i te pae tukutuku o Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) . Kei te wātea hoki ēnei utu mō te hunga whakawhiwhi mahi mō rātou anō. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tautoko | Support Tautoko mā te takitahi me ngā whānau | Support for individuals and families --- Section Separator --- Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: Me noho tūhono tonu ki ngā hoa me te whānau - he mea nui tēnei mō tō tātou oranga, ā, he āwhina kia noho haumaru ake, kia iti iho te pōkaikaha, me te iti iho te anipā. Me whāki i ō kare ā-roto - he rongo māori noa te rongo i te wairua haukerekere, pōkaikaha, anipā, māharahara, mataku rānei. Whakawāteatia he wā e aro ai koe, e whakaputa ai koe i ō kare ā-roto. Me whai tonu i ngā hātepe mēnā ka taea - me ngana ki te hanga i ngā whakaritenga auau i tō tauoranga, ā, kaua e whakapiki i ngā ritenga hauora-kore pēnei i te kai hāneanea, te inu, te kai paipa me te rehutupeka. Tirohia ētahi atu tāngata e hiahia āwhina ana pea - mā te toro atu o te ringa ki te hunga e pōkaikahatia ana pea, e māharahara ana rānei ka āwhina pea i a kōrua tahi. Whakawhāitihia tō wā tuihono - kiakotahi, kia rua rānei ō tirohanga ki ngā arapāho me ngā pae pāpori i te rā. E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro He pai noa iho te tono āwhina. I a tātau ka anga whakamua ana, he tāngata, he rōpū anō kei reira hei tautoko i a koe. Anei ngā tūmomo tohutohu, āwhina, tautoko hoki mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe. Mēnā kāore koe i te mātau ki te reo Ingarihi, ka āhei koe ki te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina waea atu ki te nuinga o ngā tari kāwanatanga. --- Section Separator --- Ina whakaaro koe he taumaha rawa, he whaitake tonu te kōrero ki tētahi mātanga hauora. He nui nga āhuatanga e taea e tātou katoa te hiki i tō tātou oranga hinengaro me ērā o ō tātou e arohaina ana: Me noho tūhono tonu ki ngā hoa me te whānau - he mea nui tēnei mō tō tātou oranga, ā, he āwhina kia noho haumaru ake, kia iti iho te pōkaikaha, me te iti iho te anipā. Me whāki i ō kare ā-roto - he rongo māori noa te rongo i te wairua haukerekere, pōkaikaha, anipā, māharahara, mataku rānei. Whakawāteatia he wā e aro ai koe, e whakaputa ai koe i ō kare ā-roto. Me whai tonu i ngā hātepe mēnā ka taea - me ngana ki te hanga i ngā whakaritenga auau i tō tauoranga, ā, kaua e whakapiki i ngā ritenga hauora-kore pēnei i te kai hāneanea, te inu, te kai paipa me te rehutupeka. Tirohia ētahi atu tāngata e hiahia āwhina ana pea - mā te toro atu o te ringa ki te hunga e pōkaikahatia ana pea, e māharahara ana rānei ka āwhina pea i a kōrua tahi. Whakawhāitihia tō wā tuihono - kiakotahi, kia rua rānei ō tirohanga ki ngā arapāho me ngā pae pāpori i te rā. E wātea ana ētahi waea āwhina e tuku tautoko, mōhiohio, āwhinatanga ana hoki mā te katoa e taumahatia ana e te oranga hinengaro. E wātea ana ngā ratonga katoa 24 hāora i te rā, 7 rā i te wiki. Rapua he waea āwhina oranga hinengaro --- Section Separator --- He pai noa iho te tono āwhina. I a tātau ka anga whakamua ana, he tāngata, he rōpū anō kei reira hei tautoko i a koe. Anei ngā tūmomo tohutohu, āwhina, tautoko hoki mēnā e hiahiatia ana e koe. Mēnā kāore koe i te mātau ki te reo Ingarihi, ka āhei koe ki te tono mō tētahi kaiwhakamāori ina waea atu ki te nuinga o ngā tari kāwanatanga. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) (external link) , i Google Play (external link) rānei (external link) .
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Te āhua o te āwhina a te whakatewhatewha pānga | How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te whakatewhatewha pānga te huarahi o te kimi me te whakapā atu ki te tangata kua whakaraerae atu pea ki a KOWHEORI-19. Ina tohua kua pāngia te tangata e KOWHEORI-19, ka whakamahi te Manatū Hauora me ngā Poari Hauora ā-Rohe i ngā momo rauemi e kitea ai te hunga kua pāngia pea e ia, kua pāngia hoki pea e te mate. Kia tere ake tā tātou whakatewhatewha pānga, ka tere ake tā tātou aukati i te hōrapa o KOWHEORI-19. Hei āwhina i te aukati o te hōrapatanga, e tūtohu ana mātou kia puritia e koe he kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga, e whai wāhi ai; Te wāhi i haere rā koe. Te wā i haere rā koe. Te hunga i tūtakina rā e koe. Whakamahia rānei tētahi taupānga hei taunga mō ngā kōrero o ō nekenekehanga Me whai rātaka rānei, Me tiaki rānei tētahi rārangi ingoa ki tētahi wāhi e haumaru ana Me mahi whakaahua rānei e whakaatu ana i ngā wāhi kua torona e koe, me te wā i aua wāhi rā koe. Whakamahia te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , tōna puka-iti rānei mehemea ka taea, whakamahia rānei te huarahi e whai take ana ki a koe. Whakatenatenahia tō whānau me ō hoa kia pērā hoki rātou. Ko tā te taupānga whakatewhatewha a te Manatū Hauora, a ' NZ COVID Tracer ' he āwhina i a koe ki te waihanga i tētahi rātaka tahiko. E taea ana: te karapa ngā tohu QR e mana ana i ngā pakihi e whai wāhi mai ana te whakauru kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua torona e koe engari kāore nei he pānui whakaahua i reira e whakaatu ana i te tohu QR . He mea hoahoa te taupānga kia tiakina te matatapu ōu me ngā kōrero kua whakaurua e koe. Kāore ngā pārongo (hāunga ngā pārongo matakore ā-tauanga) ka tukuna e koe ki te Manatū e tohaina ki pokapū kāwanatanga kē, hāunga ngā wā e hāngai pū ana te whai wāhitanga mai o taua pokapū ki te urupare a te hauora tūmatanui, ā, e mātuatua ana hoki kia tohaina ngā pārongo mō ngā take o te haumaru tūmatanui i te wā o te mate urutā, o KOWHEORI-19. E kore e whakamahia hei take uruhi. Kia utaina ki tō pūrere, he tino iti noa iho te whakapaunga a te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi. Mēnā e āwangawanga koe ki te whakapaunga o ngā hua e hono ai koe ki te ipurangi, tērā pea ka hiahia koe kia hono rā anō ki te ahokore i mua i tō uta i te taupānga ki tō pūrere. Utaina te taupānga ki tō pūrere mai i Apple App Store rānei (external link) , i Google Play rānei (external link) . He kōrero anō mō te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer (external link) Ki te kore koe e whakamahi i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer , ka pai tō whakamahi i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer hei pupuri i tētahi rātaka ōkiko e mau nei ngā kōrero mō ngā wāhi kua tauria e koe. E 30 ngā whārangi o ia puka-iti, nō reira ka nui ērā mō tōna 1 marama. Mēnā ka whakamahia e koe te puka-iti, e tūtohu ana mātou: kia puritia e koe tō puka-iti e whakaurua ai ngā kōrero mō ō nekenekehanga ka wehe ana koe i te kāinga kia waitohu tonu i ngā rārangi ingoa mō te whakatewhatewha pānga ka toro ana koe ki ngā wāhi pēnei i te toa. Ka mate pea koe ki te panoni i ngā whakaritenga o tō pūrere tā e tāngia ai te maha o ngā whārangi e pīrangitia ana e koe. E 36 ngā whārangi A4 i te puka-iti o NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] E āhei ana te tono kia 10 ngā puka-iti i te mōkī. E āhei ana tō tono kape māu anō, hei tuari rānei ki tō hapori. E utukore ana ngā tono, ā, ka 2-3 wiki te roa e tae atu ai ngā mōkī ki a koe. Īmērahia tō ingoa, tō wāhi noho, me te maha o ngā pukapuka e whāia ana ki Covid19Response@dpmc.govt.nz He pārongo anō ā te Manatū Hauora mō te whakatewhatewha pānga. He taipitopito mō te whakatewhatewha pānga, mō te hunga pā tata me te hunga pā takiwā (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Whakakā i te kimi Hono iarere | Turn on Bluetooth tracing --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea whakakapi te kimi Hono iarere i ngā tukanga kimi pāpātanga o nāianei, i ngā waehere QR NZ COVID Tracer rānei. Kei te whai tikanga tonu te mahi matawai i ngā waehere QR ki te aroturuki i ō haerenga. He mea tāpiri te utauta kimi Hono iarere — māna e āwhina ki te kimi tāngata kua whakapā tata mai ki a tātou. Mā te whakakā tonu i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tukuna tētahi waehere ID tupurangi, he matatapu, he haumaru. He rite ki te papakitanga a ngā ringa ā-matihiko i waenga i ngā waea kawe kei te pā tata mai. Mā te āheinga kimi e hopu ai i pēhea nei te tata mai a tētahi atu waea, ā, i pēhea nei te roa. Ko ngā waea ka whakapā mai me kā mai anō te kimi Hono iarere hoki. Mā tēnei e kite ai ina pāngia ai tētahi ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka āhei ia ki te tuku i tētahi whakamōhiotanga kirimuna ko ngā waehere ID tupurangi kei roto i ngā mea kua tukuna atu e ngā waea kawe i roto i ngā rā 14 kua hori. Ki te mōhio tō waea ki tētahi o ēnei waehere ID kua whakapā tata rawa ki a koe, ka mutu, kua roa tō noho atu mō te tūpono pāngia e te mate, ka whiwhi whakaohiti koe. Mā tēnei whakaohiti koe e tohutohu ki ngā mahi e noho haumaru ai koe me tō whānau. Mātakitaki i te kiriata kimi Hono iarere i tēnei whārangi kia kitea ai tana mahi. (external link) Ko tā te nuinga o ngā waea kawe he whakahou aunoa i te taupānga. Ka āhei hoki koe ki te whakahou ake ā-ringa i te taupānga i te toa taupānga, i te toa pūrei rānei. Kia whakahou ake rawa, mā te taupānga koe e ui mēnā me whakakā ake te kimi Hono iarere. Ka kā rawa mai, ka mahi tonu i tāna mahi ahakoa kua kati te taupānga. Kāore te kimi Hono iarere e whakamahi i ngā raraunga kawekawe, kāore hoki e whakamimiti i te pūhiko nā te mea he Ngao Iti Hono iarere. Mā tō whakahohe i te kimi Hono iarere, ka tiakina tō matatapu i ngā wā katoa — kāore e taea te whakaatu tō tauwāhi, tō ingoa, ētahi kōrero rānei e pā ana ki a koe. Kāore hoki te Hono iarere e hopu ko wai mā i whakapā tata mai, ā, i whea rānei koe. Ko te tikanga mēnā ka whiwhi koe i tētahi whakaohiti inā hoki kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19, kāore he tāngata i tua atu i a koe e mōhio kua riro i a koe. Ko ngā mōhiohio katoa a te kimi pāpātanga kua hopukina ki te taupānga ka mau mārika ki tō waea kawe, ā, kei a koe te tikanga i ngā wā katoa ki te āhua o ngā mōhiohio ka tohua e koe hei tuari. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Ngā wāhi whaipānga | Locations of interest --- Section Separator --- Ina puta he take hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19 i te hapori, ka whakahoutia e Te Manatū Hauora tana pae tukutuku ki ngā wāhi i kitea ētahi kēhi tūturu o te KOWHEORI-19, ā ka kīia ēnei he ʻWāhi Whaipānga’. He mea nui tonu kia hihiratia mēnā i tae koe ki tētahi wāhi whaipānga i te wā i whakatauhia. Mēnā i tae koe, ka tuhia ngā mōhiohio i te taha o ia wāhi whaipānga o ngā mahi hei whai māhau. Ko ngā mahi me mahi koe kei te āhua o te mōrearea whakaraerae i ia wāhi. Mēnā kāore koe i tae ki tētahi o aua wāhi, ka tae kē atu ki tētahi o aua wāhi engari kīhai i reira i te wā i whakatauhia, me aroturuki koe i tō hauora, ā, me haere kia whakamātauria anake mēnā e whakaatu ana koe i ētahi tohumate. Ngā wāhi whaipānga (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ina puta he take hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19 i te hapori, ka whakahoutia e Te Manatū Hauora tana pae tukutuku ki ngā wāhi i kitea ētahi kēhi tūturu o te KOWHEORI-19, ā ka kīia ēnei he ʻWāhi Whaipānga’. He mea nui tonu kia hihiratia mēnā i tae koe ki tētahi wāhi whaipānga i te wā i whakatauhia. Mēnā i tae koe, ka tuhia ngā mōhiohio i te taha o ia wāhi whaipānga o ngā mahi hei whai māhau. Ko ngā mahi me mahi koe kei te āhua o te mōrearea whakaraerae i ia wāhi. Mēnā kāore koe i tae ki tētahi o aua wāhi, ka tae kē atu ki tētahi o aua wāhi engari kīhai i reira i te wā i whakatauhia, me aroturuki koe i tō hauora, ā, me haere kia whakamātauria anake mēnā e whakaatu ana koe i ētahi tohumate. Ngā wāhi whaipānga (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: kua hoki mai koe i tāwāhi i nā tata nei kua pā atu koe ki tētahi kua hoki mai i tāwāhi i nā tata nei he whakapānga tata koe nō tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Mehemea kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate o te maremare, o te mate rānei e pēnei ana i te rewharewha, e noho ki te kāinga, ka waea-utukore ai ki Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453, ki tō whare hauora ā-iwi rānei, ki tō tākuta rānei ki te tuku pātai e pā ana ki te whakamātautau. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautau. E mau ai te wheori i waenga i ō tātou hapori, me whakamātautau rawa te tangata kua pāngia e ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Kāore he utu o te whakamātautanga, o te tapuhitanga rānei e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, ka mutu e wātea ana ki te katoa o ngā tāngata o Aotearoa, tae atu ki ērā kāore nei ō rātou kōkota whaimana ā-ture. Tēnā, hoatu ō taipitopito whakapānga ki te hunga e whakahaere ana i te whakamātautau kia whakapā ai rātou ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā hua o te whakamātautau. Ehara i te mea me whai nama Tautuhi Hauora ā-Motu ( NHI ) koe, me whakaatu rānei tō tohu tautuhi e whakamātauhia ai koe. He rite tonu te panonihia o ngā wāhi e whakamātauria ai koe. Ko te wāhi pai katoa e kitea ai tētahi rārangi o te wā, ko tō Poari Hauora ā-Rohe e pātata ana, ko ngā Whare Hauora Tūmatanui rānei e pātata ana. Kei raro iho nei ētahi o aua pārongo: Te Tai Tokerau (external link) Tāmaki-makaurau (external link) Waikato (external link) Waiariki, Rotorua me Taupō (external link) Upoko ki te Uru Hauora (external link) Te Awakairangi (external link) Te Wairarapa (external link) Te Matau a Māui (external link) Whakatāne (external link) Te Pae Hauora o Tararua, o Ruahine (Ōtaki, Taitoko, Papaioea, Kawakawa, Tāmaki-nui-a-Rua) (external link) Te Tairāwhiti (Tūranga) (external link) Taranaki (external link) Waitematā (external link) Whanganui (external link) Waitaha (external link) Te Waiora (external link) Waitaha ki te Tonga (external link) Te Tonga (external link) Te Poari Hauora ā-Rohe o Tai Poutini (external link) Mehemea me whakamātautau koe e pā ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, he tīpakotanga nō tō tinana ka tangohia. Ko te huarahi e auau katoa ana te whāia, ko te muku i te pakohu o tō ihu. He rite te rāmuku ki te matahune, engari he roa ake te rākau. Ka tukuna te tīpakotanga ki tētahi taiwhanga pūtaiao kia tātarihia. Ka pau pea tētahi wā roa tonu, kātahi ngā hua mai i te taiwhanga pūtaiao ka puta. Ina whakamātauria koe, ka kīia atu ki a koe te wā me te āhua e tau ai ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Mehemea kei Tāmaki-makaurau tō kāinga, me mātua noho koe ki te kāinga noho taratahi ai, tae noa ki te wā ka tau ki a koe ngā hua mōu. Ehara i te mea me noho taratahi te nuinga o ngā tāngata kei waho o Tāmaki-makaurau e noho ana i te wā e tāria ana te hua o te whakamātautau — mā tō tākuta koe hei tohutohu e pā ana ki tēnei take. Ka mātua tonoa koe kia noho taratahi mehemea: kua hoki mai koe i tāwāhi i nā tata nei kua pā atu koe ki tētahi kua hoki mai i tāwāhi i nā tata nei he whakapānga tata koe nō tētahi kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mehemea ka whakamātauhia koe, tēnā, whāia ngā tohutohu ki a koe e pā ana ki ngā mahi ka whai ake. Tērā pea, ka āwangawanga koe, ka nui rānei ō pātai mehemea ka tau ki a koe tētahi hua whakamātautau e tohu ana i te pāngia ōu e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka waeahia koe e tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te kōrero mō ngā pānga o tēnei take ki a koutou ko tō whānau. Kei reira taua kaimahi hei tautoko, hei āwhina hoki i a koe. Ka kōrero ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te katoa kua whakapāngia e koe i nā tata nei. Ka kōrero hoki ia ki a koe e pā ana ki te nuku i a koe — i a koutou rānei ko tō whānau, ki te hiahia koe kia pērā - ki tētahi wāhi whakataratahi (external link) kia eke ai te tapuhitanga o koutou katoa ki te taumata tiketike katoa ka taea, ā, kia kaua ai hoki te wheori e hōrapa. Ka noho koutou katoa ki tētahi wāhi kotahi, engari ki te māuiui koe ka noho pea koe ki tētahi rūma kē atu i ō tō whānau kāore nei i te māuiui. Ki te hiahia tō whānau ki te noho taratahi ki te kāinga, tēnā i te haere ki te wāhi whakataratahi, e pai ana tēnā. Ko te whāinga hoki, kia eke te haumarutanga o te katoa ki tōna taumata tiketike katoa ka taea. Kāore he utu o ngā ratonga whakataratahi katoa, pēnei i ngā kai, i ngā timotimo kai, i te ipurangi here-kore, i te horoi kaka, i ngā taputapu horoi tinana me mātua whai me ngā inu. Mehemea ka māuiui koe, mā tētahi rōpū hauora kua āta tohua koe hei tapuhi. Mehemea ka pāngia te tamaiti, tōna whānau rānei e tiaki ana i a ia e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me mātua whakataratahi, ka āta whakaū mātou i te haumaru o te noho a te tamaiti ki ngā ringa manaaki o tōna whānau. Ka āhei tō wehenga atu ā tōna wā e piki ai te ora ki a koe. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19, i te wā e tuku ana i ngā herekoretanga nui ake ki te hunga whai tohu ārai mate. --- Section Separator --- Ka whakakapi te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19 i te pūnaha Taumata Whakatūpato onāianei e whakamahia ana e te kāwanatanga hei urupare ki te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. He whakamahi i tētahi aronga 3 taumata hei whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori: Kākāriki – ka whakamahia ina iti noa te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori, ka taea te whakahaere te hunga kei rō hōhipera, ka taea e te pūnaha hauora te urupare. Karaka – ka whakamahia ina piki haere ana te rere ā-hapori o te KOWHEORI-19, e whakapaua ana ngā rawa a te pūnaha haora katoa ki te whakahaere i te urutā, kei te piki haere te mōrea ki te iwi whānui. Whero – e whakamahia ana ina hiahiatia ana kia whakamarutia te pūnaha hauora me te whakamaru i ngā taupori noho mōrea. Ka taea e tātau te whakapiki ngā taumata ina hiahiatia ana hei whakahaere i ngā urutā. He ngāwari ake te pou tarāwaho i te pūnaha Taumata Whakatūpato onāianei. He nui ake te herekore o te hunga kua whiwhi kano ārai mate. I ngā taumata katoa, ka noho tuwhera te nuinga o ngā pakihi, ngā toa hokohoko me ngā whakanōhanga tūmatanui ki te hunga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko ngā pakihi ka tuwhera anake ki ngā kiritaki whiwhi kano ārai mate he iti iho te mōrea. --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Mō te pou tarāwaho | About the framework --- Section Separator --- Ka whakakapi te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19 i te pūnaha Taumata Whakatūpato onāianei e whakamahia ana e te kāwanatanga hei urupare ki te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. He whakamahi i tētahi aronga 3 taumata hei whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori: Kākāriki – ka whakamahia ina iti noa te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori, ka taea te whakahaere te hunga kei rō hōhipera, ka taea e te pūnaha hauora te urupare. Karaka – ka whakamahia ina piki haere ana te rere ā-hapori o te KOWHEORI-19, e whakapaua ana ngā rawa a te pūnaha haora katoa ki te whakahaere i te urutā, kei te piki haere te mōrea ki te iwi whānui. Whero – e whakamahia ana ina hiahiatia ana kia whakamarutia te pūnaha hauora me te whakamaru i ngā taupori noho mōrea. Ka taea e tātau te whakapiki ngā taumata ina hiahiatia ana hei whakahaere i ngā urutā. He ngāwari ake te pou tarāwaho i te pūnaha Taumata Whakatūpato onāianei. He nui ake te herekore o te hunga kua whiwhi kano ārai mate. I ngā taumata katoa, ka noho tuwhera te nuinga o ngā pakihi, ngā toa hokohoko me ngā whakanōhanga tūmatanui ki te hunga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko ngā pakihi ka tuwhera anake ki ngā kiritaki whiwhi kano ārai mate he iti iho te mōrea. Ka haere tonu ngā aromatawai, whaiwhai i te pātanga me te noho taratahi hei tikanga hira mō te whakaiti i te hōrapa o te huaketo. Ka whakamahia tonutia ngā rāhui ā-rohe mēnā ka tere piki ngā kēhi. Tērā pea ka mate tonu ki te whakamahi i ngā rāhui whānui ake. Hei neke i waenga taumata, ka whakaarohia e mātau te: whānuitanga o te kano ārai mate kaha o te pūnaha hauora me te hauātanga aromatawai, whaiwhai i te pātanga me te kaha o te whakahaere kēhi, me te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori, tae atu ki tōna pānga ki ngā taupori hira. He tikanga matatapu te tiwhikete kano ārai mate hei whakaatu kua whiwhi koe i ngā kano ārai mate katoa. He kōwhiringa te whai tiwhikete kano ārai mate mō ngā wāhi maha. Kei reira pea ētahi wāhi mōrea nui ake e hiahiatia ana ērā kia tuwhera ai ki te iwi whānui. Ka kōwhiri pea ngā pakihi, huihuinga, whakahaere, hapori me ngā tūmomo rāngai ki te whakauru mai i ngā whakaritenga kuhunga kano ārai mate e ai ki te ture mā ngā kiritaki. Mēnā kāore e hiahia ana tētahi pakihi, whakahaere, ratonga rānei ki te tono whakaaturanga kano ārai mate, me whakahaere rānei i raro i ngā tikanga tino whāiti mō ngā whakaritenga tokomaha me te whānui. Tērā pea ka mate rātau ki te kati i ngā taumata Karaka , Whero hoki/rānei. Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa 12 tau, pakeke atu rānei te uru ki ā rātau pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mā tētahi paetukutuku e kīia ana ko My Covid Record. I konei ka taea e koe te tikiake ngā tiwhikete kano ārai mate matihiko ā-motu, ā-ao me te kimi i ō otinga aromatawai KOWHEORI-19. My Covid Record (external link) Ko te Kākāriki kei roto ētahi kēhi KOWHEORI-19 i te hapori, me ētahi kēhi nō tāwāhi. Ka whāiti te rere ā-hapori, ā, ka taea te whakahaere te hunga kei rō hōhipera nā te KOWHEORI-19. Ka mataara te pūnaha hauora ki te urupare, tae atu ki ngā hauora matua, hauora tūmatanui, me ngā hōhipera. Me mātua tiaki pūkete me te matawai He mea whakahauanga ngā ārai kanohi i runga rerenga, ā, e whakatenatenatia ana i rō whare Ngā whakanōhanga tūmatanui Ngā toa hokohoko Ngā wāhi mahi Ngā ECE, ngā kura me ngā kaiwhakarato mātauranga matua Ngā huihuinga hapori tauwhāiti i waho Kāore e hāngai ngā rāhuitanga rohenga ā-rohe. I te Karaka , ka nui haere te rere ā-hapori e pēhi ana i tā tātau pūnaha hauora. Ka aro ngā rawa katoa o te pūnaha hauora whānui, engari ka taea tonu te whakahaere te hauora matua, hauora tūmatanui, hōhipera hoki. Ka piki haere anō pea te mōrea mō te hunga noho mōrea. Me mātua tiaki pūkete me te matawai He mea whakahauanga ngā ārai kanohi i runga rerenga, wāhi tūmatanui, i rō tēkehi, wāhi tūmatanui, ā, e whakatenatenatia ana i ētahi atu wāhi Ka tuwhera ngā whakanōhanga tūmatanui me ngā tepenga tokomaha e ai ki te noho tawhiti o te 1m Ka tuwhera ngā wāhi hokohoko me ngā tepenga tokomaha e ai ki te noho tawhiti o te 1m Ka noho tuwhera ngā whakanōhanga mātauranga ki ngā whakaritenga hauora tūmatanui i te wāhi mahi Ngā wāhi mahi Ngā huihuinga hapori tauwhāiti i waho Kāore e hāngai ngā rāhuitanga rohenga ā-rohe. I te Whero , me tahuri ki te whakamaru i te hunga noho mōrea me te whakamaru i tā tātau pūnaha hauora kei pokea e te tokomaha rawa o te tāngata e uru ana ki rō hōhipera. Me mātua tiaki pūkete me te matawai He mea whakahauanga ngā ārai kanohi i runga rerenga, wāhi tūmatanui, i rō tēkehi, wāhi tūmatanui, e tūtohua ana ina wehe ana i te whare Ngā whakanōhanga tūmatanui — ka huaki me ngā tāngata atu ki te 100, e ai ki te noho tawhiti o te 1m Ngā wāhi hokohoko — ka tuwhera ngā wāhi hokohoko me ngā tepenga tokomaha e ai ki te noho tawhiti o te 1m Ngā wāhi mahi — e whakatenatenatia ana te mahi mai i te kāinga E tuwhera ana ngā ECE me ngā kura me ngā whakaritenga hauora tūmatanui Ngā huihuinga hapori o waho — e whakaaetia ana me ngā tepenga tokomaha Ka hāngai pea ngā rāhuitanga rohenga ā-rohe Kia tino whai hua te noho i Aotearoa, me whiwhi kano ārai i tēnei rā. Mēnā kua whiwhi kano ārai mate, me whakapau kaha koe ki te āwhina i ō hoa me tō whānau ki te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia tere ake ai te pārekareka o ō tātau rā katoa i roto i te pūnaha hou. BookMyVaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ka whakakapi te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19 i te pūnaha Taumata Whakatūpato onāianei e whakamahia ana e te kāwanatanga hei urupare ki te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. He whakamahi i tētahi aronga 3 taumata hei whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori: Kākāriki – ka whakamahia ina iti noa te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori, ka taea te whakahaere te hunga kei rō hōhipera, ka taea e te pūnaha hauora te urupare. Karaka – ka whakamahia ina piki haere ana te rere ā-hapori o te KOWHEORI-19, e whakapaua ana ngā rawa a te pūnaha haora katoa ki te whakahaere i te urutā, kei te piki haere te mōrea ki te iwi whānui. Whero – e whakamahia ana ina hiahiatia ana kia whakamarutia te pūnaha hauora me te whakamaru i ngā taupori noho mōrea. Ka taea e tātau te whakapiki ngā taumata ina hiahiatia ana hei whakahaere i ngā urutā. He ngāwari ake te pou tarāwaho i te pūnaha Taumata Whakatūpato onāianei. He nui ake te herekore o te hunga kua whiwhi kano ārai mate. I ngā taumata katoa, ka noho tuwhera te nuinga o ngā pakihi, ngā toa hokohoko me ngā whakanōhanga tūmatanui ki te hunga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ko ngā pakihi ka tuwhera anake ki ngā kiritaki whiwhi kano ārai mate he iti iho te mōrea. Ka haere tonu ngā aromatawai, whaiwhai i te pātanga me te noho taratahi hei tikanga hira mō te whakaiti i te hōrapa o te huaketo. Ka whakamahia tonutia ngā rāhui ā-rohe mēnā ka tere piki ngā kēhi. Tērā pea ka mate tonu ki te whakamahi i ngā rāhui whānui ake. Hei neke i waenga taumata, ka whakaarohia e mātau te: whānuitanga o te kano ārai mate kaha o te pūnaha hauora me te hauātanga aromatawai, whaiwhai i te pātanga me te kaha o te whakahaere kēhi, me te hōrapa o te KOWHEORI-19 i roto i te hapori, tae atu ki tōna pānga ki ngā taupori hira. He tikanga matatapu te tiwhikete kano ārai mate hei whakaatu kua whiwhi koe i ngā kano ārai mate katoa. He kōwhiringa te whai tiwhikete kano ārai mate mō ngā wāhi maha. Kei reira pea ētahi wāhi mōrea nui ake e hiahiatia ana ērā kia tuwhera ai ki te iwi whānui. Ka kōwhiri pea ngā pakihi, huihuinga, whakahaere, hapori me ngā tūmomo rāngai ki te whakauru mai i ngā whakaritenga kuhunga kano ārai mate e ai ki te ture mā ngā kiritaki. Mēnā kāore e hiahia ana tētahi pakihi, whakahaere, ratonga rānei ki te tono whakaaturanga kano ārai mate, me whakahaere rānei i raro i ngā tikanga tino whāiti mō ngā whakaritenga tokomaha me te whānui. Tērā pea ka mate rātau ki te kati i ngā taumata Karaka , Whero hoki/rānei. Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa 12 tau, pakeke atu rānei te uru ki ā rātau pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mā tētahi paetukutuku e kīia ana ko My Covid Record. I konei ka taea e koe te tikiake ngā tiwhikete kano ārai mate matihiko ā-motu, ā-ao me te kimi i ō otinga aromatawai KOWHEORI-19. My Covid Record (external link) Ko te Kākāriki kei roto ētahi kēhi KOWHEORI-19 i te hapori, me ētahi kēhi nō tāwāhi. Ka whāiti te rere ā-hapori, ā, ka taea te whakahaere te hunga kei rō hōhipera nā te KOWHEORI-19. Ka mataara te pūnaha hauora ki te urupare, tae atu ki ngā hauora matua, hauora tūmatanui, me ngā hōhipera. Me mātua tiaki pūkete me te matawai He mea whakahauanga ngā ārai kanohi i runga rerenga, ā, e whakatenatenatia ana i rō whare Ngā whakanōhanga tūmatanui Ngā toa hokohoko Ngā wāhi mahi Ngā ECE, ngā kura me ngā kaiwhakarato mātauranga matua Ngā huihuinga hapori tauwhāiti i waho Kāore e hāngai ngā rāhuitanga rohenga ā-rohe. --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka , ka nui haere te rere ā-hapori e pēhi ana i tā tātau pūnaha hauora. Ka aro ngā rawa katoa o te pūnaha hauora whānui, engari ka taea tonu te whakahaere te hauora matua, hauora tūmatanui, hōhipera hoki. Ka piki haere anō pea te mōrea mō te hunga noho mōrea. Me mātua tiaki pūkete me te matawai He mea whakahauanga ngā ārai kanohi i runga rerenga, wāhi tūmatanui, i rō tēkehi, wāhi tūmatanui, ā, e whakatenatenatia ana i ētahi atu wāhi Ka tuwhera ngā whakanōhanga tūmatanui me ngā tepenga tokomaha e ai ki te noho tawhiti o te 1m Ka tuwhera ngā wāhi hokohoko me ngā tepenga tokomaha e ai ki te noho tawhiti o te 1m Ka noho tuwhera ngā whakanōhanga mātauranga ki ngā whakaritenga hauora tūmatanui i te wāhi mahi Ngā wāhi mahi Ngā huihuinga hapori tauwhāiti i waho Kāore e hāngai ngā rāhuitanga rohenga ā-rohe. --- Section Separator --- I te Whero , me tahuri ki te whakamaru i te hunga noho mōrea me te whakamaru i tā tātau pūnaha hauora kei pokea e te tokomaha rawa o te tāngata e uru ana ki rō hōhipera. Me mātua tiaki pūkete me te matawai He mea whakahauanga ngā ārai kanohi i runga rerenga, wāhi tūmatanui, i rō tēkehi, wāhi tūmatanui, e tūtohua ana ina wehe ana i te whare Ngā whakanōhanga tūmatanui — ka huaki me ngā tāngata atu ki te 100, e ai ki te noho tawhiti o te 1m Ngā wāhi hokohoko — ka tuwhera ngā wāhi hokohoko me ngā tepenga tokomaha e ai ki te noho tawhiti o te 1m Ngā wāhi mahi — e whakatenatenatia ana te mahi mai i te kāinga E tuwhera ana ngā ECE me ngā kura me ngā whakaritenga hauora tūmatanui Ngā huihuinga hapori o waho — e whakaaetia ana me ngā tepenga tokomaha Ka hāngai pea ngā rāhuitanga rohenga ā-rohe --- Section Separator --- Kia tino whai hua te noho i Aotearoa, me whiwhi kano ārai i tēnei rā. Mēnā kua whiwhi kano ārai mate, me whakapau kaha koe ki te āwhina i ō hoa me tō whānau ki te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia tere ake ai te pārekareka o ō tātau rā katoa i roto i te pūnaha hou. BookMyVaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Te ora i te Karaka | Life at Orange --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, ka taea e koe te mahi tonu i ngā mahi ia rā, ā, ka taea e koe te hāereere i te motu. Ka taea e koe te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura, ki ngā whare whakapakari tinana, te whare karakia, ngā whare kai, me ētahi atu wāhi huhua. Tērā ētahi herenga i runga i ētahi mahi hei pupuru i te i te horanga o te huaketo me te tiaki i te hunga whakaraerae. Ka taea e te nuinga o ngā pakihi te whakatuwhera me te kore herenga i runga i ngā tatauranga mēnā ka kōwhiri rātou ki te whakamahi i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Ina kore rātou e kōwhiri ki te whakamahi i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, he herenga i runga i te maha o ngā tāngata i te wāhi kotahi. I raro i te Pūnaha Whakamaru Kowheori-19, kua kore katoa ngā mirumiru kāinga. Ko te My Vaccine Pass he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ko te whakahau a te ture me whakaatu koe i tō Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki ngā wāhi e whai ana i ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate. Ka uru pea ki tēnei ngā wāhi manaaki, ngā takahanga, ngā huihuinga me ngā whare whakapakari tinana. Kāore e taea te tono i a koe kia whakaaturia tō Tohu Ārai Mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui, me te hauora waiwai. My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Karaka me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā ārai kanohi Ko wai te hunga kāore e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi? Mēnā kua raru tō whiwhinga moni i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tautoko ā-moni. Ka māraurau pea koe mēnā: i whakakorea tō mahi nā runga i tō kore whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i whakahekea tō moni whiwhi, kāore rānei e taea e koe te mahi nā ngā herenga o te KOWHEORI me haere kia whakamātauria koe mō te KOWHEORI-19 me noho taratahi me whai āwhinatanga ki ngā utunga waiwai Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Ka taea e nga pakihi me nga wāhi mahi te huaki i te Karaka. E āhei ana te katoa ki te whiwhi i ngā matea waiwai pēnei i te kai, te tiaki hauora, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui me te whakaruruhau ohotata. Nā tēnei take, ka noho tuwhera tonu ētahi pakihi pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā toa, ngā kēmehi me ētahi atu, i raro i ngā whakaritenga rama toru, ā, me te kore anō e tono ki te whakaatu i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Mēnā e whakamahi ana tētahi pakihi i te Tohu Ārai Mate, me hihira te pakihi i ēnei, ā, e whakahaua ana kia matawaitia mā te taupānga Manatoko. Mēnā kāore te pakihi e whakamahi ana i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, tērā pea he herenga kei runga i tērā. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Mēnā kei te whakahaere koe i tētahi takahanga, tētahi hui rānei, me mātua whakarite: e whāia ana ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata e mau ana ngā tāngata i ngā ārai kanohi i te wā tika kia auau te horoi i ngā mata. Ka taea ngā huihuinga i te Karaka, pēnei i te tūtataki hoa, te mārena me te haere ki te whare karakia mēnā ka whakamahi koe i Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ka taea e koe te whakarato kai me te inu i tō huihuinga. Mēnā nōu katoa te whare manaaki mō tō huihuinga, ehara i te mea me whai koe i ngā ture manaaki o te whakarato kai me te inu. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua, ngā whare pāpori me ngā hōhipera i te Karaka. Engari, me pātai anō i ia wāhi e haere nā koe mēnā he herenga anō o taua wāhi. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ō hoa me tō whānau i te whare herehere, engari me ētahi herenga. Me whiwhi rawa ngā manuhiri ki ngā whare herehere i tētahi pota o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, neke atu rānei. Ka tuwhera ngā whare mātauranga i te Karaka. E akiakitia ana ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki, te whānau, me ētahi atu manuhiri katoa ki te mau ārai kanohi i te kura. E kore e taea te aukati i ngā tamariki, ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki rānei o te tamaiti, ākonga rānei, mai i te haere ki te kura, ki ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga rānei i runga anō i tōna tūnga kano ārai mate. I nga wāhi mātauranga, me tino wero rawa ētahi tāngata kia whakapā ki nga tamariki me nga ākonga. Ka uru ki tēnei ko ngā kaiako, ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakaako i rō kāinga, ngā kaitautoko i ngā kura me ngā pokapū ako kōhungahunga, tae atu ki ngā kaitūao, ngā kaiāwhina, ngā kaiwhakahaere me ngā kaimahi tiaki i te kura, ngā kaikirimana, me ngā manuhiri (i tua atu i ngā mātua, te whānau, ngā kaitiaki rānei o ngā ākonga). Ka taea e ngā ākonga mātauranga tuatoru te haere ki ngā momo akoranga katoa. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e tatari ana mō te hua o tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, kua tonoa rānei kia noho taratahi, tēnā noho ki te kāinga, ā, kaua e haere ki tō kura. Me whakarato tō kura, whare mātauranga tuatoru rānei i ngā kōwhiringa ako mamao mēhemea ka mate koe ki te noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā kaupapa hākinakina me te tākaro hākinakina i te Karaka, me ngā herenga. Ka uru ngā tamariki ki ngā tepenga tāngata, engari anō ngā kaimahi. Ka haere koe ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Karaka . Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tētahi tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mahia i te 72 hāora iti ake rānei i mua o tō haerenga, i mua i tō pikinga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau. Kāore e wātea ana ngā whakamātautau mō te hāereere i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori. Ina hiahia koe i tētahi whakamātautau mō tēnei take, māhau e whakarite, ā, māhau anō e utu. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me whai tohu ārai mate koe, hua tōraro rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, māna, e herea ana e te kaiwhakahaere waka kawe. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi wāhi whakaritenga kē, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi.Mēnā he nui ngā wāhi tautohu o tō whare whakahaere kaupapa, me whakarite koe kia kaua aua rōpū e whakawhitiwhiti. Ka rerekē pea te āhua o tēnei i te whakatinanatanga. Hei tauira, tērā pea me whakarite i ngā tomokanga tāuke mō ngā wāhi tiri, me whakarerekē rānei i te wā tīmata. Tērā pea me whakarite i ngā wharepaku rerekē, me te taupaepae rerekē mō ia rōpū. Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, ka taea e koe te mahi tonu i ngā mahi ia rā, ā, ka taea e koe te hāereere i te motu. Ka taea e koe te haere ki te mahi, ki te kura, ki ngā whare whakapakari tinana, te whare karakia, ngā whare kai, me ētahi atu wāhi huhua. Tērā ētahi herenga i runga i ētahi mahi hei pupuru i te i te horanga o te huaketo me te tiaki i te hunga whakaraerae. Ka taea e te nuinga o ngā pakihi te whakatuwhera me te kore herenga i runga i ngā tatauranga mēnā ka kōwhiri rātou ki te whakamahi i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Ina kore rātou e kōwhiri ki te whakamahi i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, he herenga i runga i te maha o ngā tāngata i te wāhi kotahi. I raro i te Pūnaha Whakamaru Kowheori-19, kua kore katoa ngā mirumiru kāinga. Ko te My Vaccine Pass he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ko te whakahau a te ture me whakaatu koe i tō Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki ngā wāhi e whai ana i ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate. Ka uru pea ki tēnei ngā wāhi manaaki, ngā takahanga, ngā huihuinga me ngā whare whakapakari tinana. Kāore e taea te tono i a koe kia whakaaturia tō Tohu Ārai Mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui, me te hauora waiwai. My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Karaka me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā ārai kanohi Ko wai te hunga kāore e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi? Mēnā kua raru tō whiwhinga moni i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tautoko ā-moni. Ka māraurau pea koe mēnā: i whakakorea tō mahi nā runga i tō kore whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i whakahekea tō moni whiwhi, kāore rānei e taea e koe te mahi nā ngā herenga o te KOWHEORI me haere kia whakamātauria koe mō te KOWHEORI-19 me noho taratahi me whai āwhinatanga ki ngā utunga waiwai Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Ka taea e nga pakihi me nga wāhi mahi te huaki i te Karaka. E āhei ana te katoa ki te whiwhi i ngā matea waiwai pēnei i te kai, te tiaki hauora, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui me te whakaruruhau ohotata. Nā tēnei take, ka noho tuwhera tonu ētahi pakihi pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā toa, ngā kēmehi me ētahi atu, i raro i ngā whakaritenga rama toru, ā, me te kore anō e tono ki te whakaatu i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Mēnā e whakamahi ana tētahi pakihi i te Tohu Ārai Mate, me hihira te pakihi i ēnei, ā, e whakahaua ana kia matawaitia mā te taupānga Manatoko. Mēnā kāore te pakihi e whakamahi ana i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, tērā pea he herenga kei runga i tērā. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Mēnā kei te whakahaere koe i tētahi takahanga, tētahi hui rānei, me mātua whakarite: e whāia ana ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata e mau ana ngā tāngata i ngā ārai kanohi i te wā tika kia auau te horoi i ngā mata. Ka taea ngā huihuinga i te Karaka, pēnei i te tūtataki hoa, te mārena me te haere ki te whare karakia mēnā ka whakamahi koe i Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ka taea e koe te whakarato kai me te inu i tō huihuinga. Mēnā nōu katoa te whare manaaki mō tō huihuinga, ehara i te mea me whai koe i ngā ture manaaki o te whakarato kai me te inu. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua, ngā whare pāpori me ngā hōhipera i te Karaka. Engari, me pātai anō i ia wāhi e haere nā koe mēnā he herenga anō o taua wāhi. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ō hoa me tō whānau i te whare herehere, engari me ētahi herenga. Me whiwhi rawa ngā manuhiri ki ngā whare herehere i tētahi pota o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, neke atu rānei. Ka tuwhera ngā whare mātauranga i te Karaka. E akiakitia ana ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki, te whānau, me ētahi atu manuhiri katoa ki te mau ārai kanohi i te kura. E kore e taea te aukati i ngā tamariki, ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki rānei o te tamaiti, ākonga rānei, mai i te haere ki te kura, ki ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga rānei i runga anō i tōna tūnga kano ārai mate. I nga wāhi mātauranga, me tino wero rawa ētahi tāngata kia whakapā ki nga tamariki me nga ākonga. Ka uru ki tēnei ko ngā kaiako, ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakaako i rō kāinga, ngā kaitautoko i ngā kura me ngā pokapū ako kōhungahunga, tae atu ki ngā kaitūao, ngā kaiāwhina, ngā kaiwhakahaere me ngā kaimahi tiaki i te kura, ngā kaikirimana, me ngā manuhiri (i tua atu i ngā mātua, te whānau, ngā kaitiaki rānei o ngā ākonga). Ka taea e ngā ākonga mātauranga tuatoru te haere ki ngā momo akoranga katoa. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e tatari ana mō te hua o tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, kua tonoa rānei kia noho taratahi, tēnā noho ki te kāinga, ā, kaua e haere ki tō kura. Me whakarato tō kura, whare mātauranga tuatoru rānei i ngā kōwhiringa ako mamao mēhemea ka mate koe ki te noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā kaupapa hākinakina me te tākaro hākinakina i te Karaka, me ngā herenga. Ka uru ngā tamariki ki ngā tepenga tāngata, engari anō ngā kaimahi. Ka haere koe ki ngā wāhi katoa e hiahia ana koe, ahakoa te take, i te Karaka . Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tētahi tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mahia i te 72 hāora iti ake rānei i mua o tō haerenga, i mua i tō pikinga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau. Kāore e wātea ana ngā whakamātautau mō te hāereere i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori. Ina hiahia koe i tētahi whakamātautau mō tēnei take, māhau e whakarite, ā, māhau anō e utu. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me whai tohu ārai mate koe, hua tōraro rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, māna, e herea ana e te kaiwhakahaere waka kawe. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi wāhi whakaritenga kē, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi.Mēnā he nui ngā wāhi tautohu o tō whare whakahaere kaupapa, me whakarite koe kia kaua aua rōpū e whakawhitiwhiti. Ka rerekē pea te āhua o tēnei i te whakatinanatanga. Hei tauira, tērā pea me whakarite i ngā tomokanga tāuke mō ngā wāhi tiri, me whakarerekē rānei i te wā tīmata. Tērā pea me whakarite i ngā wharepaku rerekē, me te taupaepae rerekē mō ia rōpū. Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Te ora i te Whero | Life at Red --- Section Separator --- He herenga kei runga i ngā wāhi e taea e tātou te haere ake i te Whero. Engari tērā anō ngā mahi o ia rā ka taea e tātou katoa. Ka taea e tātou te tūtataki ki ngā hoa me te whānau, i roto, i waho hoki, te haere ki te hoko taputapu, te haere ki te kura me te hāereere. Mā te whiwhi kano ārai mate e nui ake ai tō āraitanga. Ko te My Vaccine Pass he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ko te whakahau a te ture me whakaatu koe i tō Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki ngā wāhi e whai ana i ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate. Ka uru pea ki tēnei ngā wāhi manaaki, ngā takahanga, ngā huihuinga me ngā whare whakapakari tinana. Kāore e taea te tono i a koe kia whakaaturia tō Tohu Ārai Mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui, me te hauora waiwai. My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Whero me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā ārai kanohi Ko wai te hunga kāore e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi? Mēnā kua raru tō whiwhinga moni i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tautoko ā-moni. Ka māraurau pea koe mēnā: i whakakorea tō mahi nā runga i tō kore whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i whakahekea tō moni whiwhi, kāore rānei e taea e koe te mahi nā ngā herenga o te KOWHEORI me haere kia whakamātauria koe mō te KOWHEORI-19 me noho whakamohoao me whai āwhinatanga ki ngā utunga waiwai Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Ka taea e ngā wāhi mahi te huaki i te Whero. Mēnā e tika ana mō tō mahi, ka taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga. Kōrero ki tō kaituku mahi mō te āhuatanga e tika ana mōu. E āhei ana te katoa ki te whiwhi i ngā matea waiwai pēnei i te kai, te tiaki hauora, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui me te whakaruruhau ohotata. Nā tēnei take, ka noho tuwhera tonu ētahi pakihi pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā toa, ngā kēmehi me ētahi atu, i raro i ngā whakaritenga rama toru, ā, me te kore anō e tono ki te whakaatu i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Mēnā e whakamahi ana tētahi pakihi i te Tohu Ārai Mate, me hihira te pakihi i ēnei, ā, e whakahaua ana kia matawaitia mā te taupānga Manatoko. Mēnā kāore te pakihi e whakamahi ana i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, tērā pea he herenga kei runga i tērā. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Mēnā kei te whakahaere koe i tētahi takahanga, tētahi hui rānei, me mātua whakarite: e whāia ana ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata e mau ana ngā tāngata i ngā ārai kanohi i te wā tika kia auau te horoi i ngā mata. Ka taea ngā huihuinga i te Whero, pēnei i te tūtataki hoa, te mārena me te haere ki te whare karakia mēnā ka whakamahi koe i Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ka taea e koe te whakarato kai me te inu i tō huihuinga. Mēnā nōu katoa te whare manaaki mō tō huihuinga, ehara i te mea me whai koe i ngā ture manaaki o te whakarato kai me te inu. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua, ngā whare pāpori me ngā hōhipera i te Whero. Engari, me pātai anō i ia wāhi e haere nā koe mēnā he herenga anō o taua wāhi. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ō hoa me tō whānau me te kore herenga. Me whiwhi rawa ngā manuhiri ki ngā whare herehere i tētahi pota o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, neke atu rānei. Ka tuwhera ngā whare mātauranga i te Whero. Me mau ārai kanohi ngā ākonga katoa o te Tau 4, piki atu hoki, i rō whare, ā, i te wā e tū tata ana ki ētahi atu. Me mau ārai kanohi ngā kaimahi me ngā kaiako i te wā e whakaako ana, e tautoko ana rānei i ngā tamariki Tau 4, piki ake. E akiakitia ana ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki, te whānau, me ētahi atu manuhiri katoa ki te mau ārai kanohi i te kura. E kore e taea te aukati i ngā tamariki, ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki rānei o te tamaiti, ākonga rānei, mai i te haere ki te kura, ki ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga rānei i runga anō i tōna tūnga kano ārai mate. I nga wāhi mātauranga, me tino wero rawa ētahi tāngata kia whakapā ki nga tamariki me nga ākonga. Ka uru ki tēnei ko ngā kaiako, ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakaako i rō kāinga, ngā kaitautoko i ngā kura me ngā pokapū ako kōhungahunga, tae atu ki ngā kaitūao, ngā kaiāwhina, ngā kaiwhakahaere me ngā kaimahi tiaki i te kura, ngā kaikirimana, me ngā manuhiri (i tua atu i ngā mātua, te whānau, ngā kaitiaki rānei o ngā ākonga). Ka taea e ngā ākonga mātauranga tuatoru te haere ki ngā momo akoranga katoa. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e tatari ana mō te hua o tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, kua tonoa rānei kia noho whakamohoao, tēnā noho ki te kāinga, ā, kaua e haere ki tō kura mātauranga. Me whakarato tō kura, whare mātauranga tuatoru rānei i ngā kōwhiringa ako mamao mēhemea ka mate koe ki te noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā kaupapa hākinakina me te tākaro hākinakina i te Whero, me ngā herenga. Ka uru ngā tamariki ki ngā tepenga tāngata, engari anō ngā kaimahi. Ka āhei koe ki te haere i ngā wāhi katoa ahakoa he aha te take i te Whero. Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tētahi tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mahia i te 72 hāora iti ake rānei i mua o tō haerenga, i mua i tō pikinga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau. Kāore e wātea ana ngā whakamātautau mō te hāereere i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori. Ina hiahia koe i tētahi whakamātautau mō tēnei take, māhau e whakarite, ā, māhau anō e utu. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me whai tohu ārai mate koe, hua tōraro rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, māna, e herea ana e te kaiwhakahaere waka kawe. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi wāhi whakaritenga kē, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi.Mēnā he nui ngā wāhi tautohu o tō whare whakahaere kaupapa, me whakarite koe kia kaua aua rōpū e whakawhitiwhiti. Ka rerekē pea te āhua o tēnei i te whakatinanatanga. Hei tauira, tērā pea me whakarite i ngā tomokanga tāuke mō ngā wāhi tiri, me whakarerekē rānei i te wā tīmata. Tērā pea me whakarite i ngā wharepaku rerekē, me te taupaepae rerekē mō ia rōpū. Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā mata e tiria ai. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111. --- Section Separator --- He herenga kei runga i ngā wāhi e taea e tātou te haere ake i te Whero. Engari tērā anō ngā mahi o ia rā ka taea e tātou katoa. Ka taea e tātou te tūtataki ki ngā hoa me te whānau, i roto, i waho hoki, te haere ki te hoko taputapu, te haere ki te kura me te hāereere. Mā te whiwhi kano ārai mate e nui ake ai tō āraitanga. Ko te My Vaccine Pass he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ko te whakahau a te ture me whakaatu koe i tō Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki ngā wāhi e whai ana i ngā whakaritenga kano ārai mate. Ka uru pea ki tēnei ngā wāhi manaaki, ngā takahanga, ngā huihuinga me ngā whare whakapakari tinana. Kāore e taea te tono i a koe kia whakaaturia tō Tohu Ārai Mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui, me te hauora waiwai. My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. I te Whero me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga i ngā ratonga rererangi i Aotearoa i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga o ngā ratonga waka kawe tūmatanui i ngā pakihi hokohoko i ngā wāhi/whare tūmatanui (engari anō ngā wāhi kaukau) i ngā kēmehi i ngā ratonga tākuta kararehe, me ngā ratonga hauora kararehe hoki i ngā whare kōti, whakawā hoki i ngā ratonga toko i te ora kua tohua i ngā wāhi tūmatanui e whakahaeretia ana e NZ Post Limited i ngā whare e whakahaeretia ana e ngā tari kāwanatanga, ngā kaunihera, ngā Pirihimana rānei i ngā ratonga hauora, i tua atu i ngā kēmehi, ā, ehara i te tūroro he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i te pakihi, ratonga kai, inu rānei he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi pakihi tūtata ki te tangata he kaimahi e anga atu ana ki ngā kiritaki i tētahi momo huihuinga E tino whakahaua ana kia mau ārai kanohi koe i ngā wāhi katoa. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā ārai kanohi Ko wai te hunga kāore e mate ki te mau ārai kanohi? Mēnā kua raru tō whiwhinga moni i te KOWHEORI-19, ka taea pea e koe te whiwhi tautoko ā-moni. Ka māraurau pea koe mēnā: i whakakorea tō mahi nā runga i tō kore whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i whakahekea tō moni whiwhi, kāore rānei e taea e koe te mahi nā ngā herenga o te KOWHEORI me haere kia whakamātauria koe mō te KOWHEORI-19 me noho whakamohoao me whai āwhinatanga ki ngā utunga waiwai Rapua he aha ngā tautoko e wātea ana ki a koe Ka taea e ngā wāhi mahi te huaki i te Whero. Mēnā e tika ana mō tō mahi, ka taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga. Kōrero ki tō kaituku mahi mō te āhuatanga e tika ana mōu. E āhei ana te katoa ki te whiwhi i ngā matea waiwai pēnei i te kai, te tiaki hauora, ngā waka kawe tūmatanui me te whakaruruhau ohotata. Nā tēnei take, ka noho tuwhera tonu ētahi pakihi pēnei i ngā hokomaha, ngā toa, ngā kēmehi me ētahi atu, i raro i ngā whakaritenga rama toru, ā, me te kore anō e tono ki te whakaatu i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate. Mēnā e whakamahi ana tētahi pakihi i te Tohu Ārai Mate, me hihira te pakihi i ēnei, ā, e whakahaua ana kia matawaitia mā te taupānga Manatoko. Mēnā kāore te pakihi e whakamahi ana i ngā Tohu Ārai Mate, tērā pea he herenga kei runga i tērā. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Mēnā kei te whakahaere koe i tētahi takahanga, tētahi hui rānei, me mātua whakarite: e whāia ana ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata e mau ana ngā tāngata i ngā ārai kanohi i te wā tika kia auau te horoi i ngā mata. Ka taea ngā huihuinga i te Whero, pēnei i te tūtataki hoa, te mārena me te haere ki te whare karakia mēnā ka whakamahi koe i Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Ka taea e koe te whakarato kai me te inu i tō huihuinga. Mēnā nōu katoa te whare manaaki mō tō huihuinga, ehara i te mea me whai koe i ngā ture manaaki o te whakarato kai me te inu. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ngā whare tiaki kaumātua, ngā whare pāpori me ngā hōhipera i te Whero. Engari, me pātai anō i ia wāhi e haere nā koe mēnā he herenga anō o taua wāhi. Ka taea e koe te toro atu ki ō hoa me tō whānau me te kore herenga. Me whiwhi rawa ngā manuhiri ki ngā whare herehere i tētahi pota o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, neke atu rānei. Ka tuwhera ngā whare mātauranga i te Whero. Me mau ārai kanohi ngā ākonga katoa o te Tau 4, piki atu hoki, i rō whare, ā, i te wā e tū tata ana ki ētahi atu. Me mau ārai kanohi ngā kaimahi me ngā kaiako i te wā e whakaako ana, e tautoko ana rānei i ngā tamariki Tau 4, piki ake. E akiakitia ana ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki, te whānau, me ētahi atu manuhiri katoa ki te mau ārai kanohi i te kura. E kore e taea te aukati i ngā tamariki, ngā mātua, ngā kaitiaki rānei o te tamaiti, ākonga rānei, mai i te haere ki te kura, ki ngā ratonga ako kōhungahunga rānei i runga anō i tōna tūnga kano ārai mate. I nga wāhi mātauranga, me tino wero rawa ētahi tāngata kia whakapā ki nga tamariki me nga ākonga. Ka uru ki tēnei ko ngā kaiako, ngā kaimahi, ngā kaiwhakaako i rō kāinga, ngā kaitautoko i ngā kura me ngā pokapū ako kōhungahunga, tae atu ki ngā kaitūao, ngā kaiāwhina, ngā kaiwhakahaere me ngā kaimahi tiaki i te kura, ngā kaikirimana, me ngā manuhiri (i tua atu i ngā mātua, te whānau, ngā kaitiaki rānei o ngā ākonga). Ka taea e ngā ākonga mātauranga tuatoru te haere ki ngā momo akoranga katoa. Mēnā e māuiui ana koe, e tatari ana mō te hua o tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, kua tonoa rānei kia noho whakamohoao, tēnā noho ki te kāinga, ā, kaua e haere ki tō kura mātauranga. Me whakarato tō kura, whare mātauranga tuatoru rānei i ngā kōwhiringa ako mamao mēhemea ka mate koe ki te noho i te kāinga. Ka taea e koe te haere ki ngā kaupapa hākinakina me te tākaro hākinakina i te Whero, me ngā herenga. Ka uru ngā tamariki ki ngā tepenga tāngata, engari anō ngā kaimahi. Ka āhei koe ki te haere i ngā wāhi katoa ahakoa he aha te take i te Whero. Ka hiahia pea ētahi kaiwhakahaere waka kawe, pēnei i a Air New Zealand me ngā waka whiti o Te Moana o Raukawa, kia whakaatu koe i tētahi tohu ārai mate, tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mahia i te 72 hāora iti ake rānei i mua o tō haerenga, i mua i tō pikinga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau. Kāore e wātea ana ngā whakamātautau mō te hāereere i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori. Ina hiahia koe i tētahi whakamātautau mō tēnei take, māhau e whakarite, ā, māhau anō e utu. Mēnā e whakarite ana koe ki te haere: Kaua e haere mēnā e māuiui ana koe. Kaua e haere mehemea kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi. Ehara i te mea me whai tohu ārai mate koe, hua tōraro rānei o te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19, māna, e herea ana e te kaiwhakahaere waka kawe. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi wāhi whakaritenga kē, me whai koe i ngā tohutohu mō taua wāhi i tō taenga atu. Kāore he herenga tū tīrara i ngā ratonga waka kawe, i ngā taunga rererangi rānei, ngā teihana tereina, ngā teihana pahi rānei. Ko te wāhi tautohu he wāhi kotahi, i rō whare, i waho rānei, e wehea mai ana i ētahi atu wāhi.Mēnā he nui ngā wāhi tautohu o tō whare whakahaere kaupapa, me whakarite koe kia kaua aua rōpū e whakawhitiwhiti. Ka rerekē pea te āhua o tēnei i te whakatinanatanga. Hei tauira, tērā pea me whakarite i ngā tomokanga tāuke mō ngā wāhi tiri, me whakarerekē rānei i te wā tīmata. Tērā pea me whakarite i ngā wharepaku rerekē, me te taupaepae rerekē mō ia rōpū. Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā mata e tiria ai. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel E haere ai koe i roto o Aotearoa, e tae mai ai koe i tāwāhi rānei, ka mate pea koe ki te whiwhi tiwhikete e tohu ana i tō tūnga kano ārai mate, te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, te kuhu atu rānei ki te wāhi noho taratahi. --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā kōrero me mōhio koe mō te hāereere i Aotearoa i raro i te pūnaha rama toru --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā kōrero me mōhio koe mō te hāereere i Aotearoa i raro i te pūnaha rama toru
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel Whakamātautau i mua i te wehe mō te hunga haere ki Aotearoa | Pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Ka noho tonu ko te kauparenga nui mō tātou ko te ārai atu i te huaketo mai i Aotearoa. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi te nuinga o ngā kaihāereere ki Aotearoa i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mua i te wehe e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana, i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga tuatahi ki tāwāhi. Ka wātea ngā whenua e whai ake nei i tētahi whakamātau i mua i te wehenga: Te Tiri o te Moana (Antarctica) Kuki Airani (The Cook Islands) Ngā Whenua Tōpū o Maikoronihia (Federated States of Micronesia) Whītī (Fiji) Kiripati Ngā Moutere o Marshall Nauru Kanaki (New Caledonia) Niue Pārao Hāmoa (Samoa) Ngā Motu o Horomona (Solomon Islands) Tokerau Tonga Tūwaru Whenuatū Kua whakaūngia e te Manatu Hauora ngā momo whakamātautau e whai ake nei e whakaaetia ana mō ngā whenua katoa hāunga ngā whenua o Ahitereiria me ngā whenua tino mōrearea: Whakamātau Whakarahi Waikawa Karihi (NAAT), kei roto ko te PCR, RT-PCR me te TMA, LAMP, whakamātau ā-paturopi (tērā pea e kīia ana he whakamātau wheori paturopi) rānei. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi ngā kaihāereere mai i Ahitereiria i ngā whakamātautau PCR, RT-PCR rānei i mua i te wehenga. Me whai taunakitanga rawa ngā kaihāereere mai i ngā whenua tino mōrearea o tētahi whakamātautau ihu-korokoro RT-PCR (PCR) e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana. Kimihia ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whenua tino mōrearea Ka wātea ngā tamariki i raro iho i te rua tau (24 marama) i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ka wātea ngā kaihāereere e whakawhiti ana mā Aotearoa ki tō rātou taunga whakamutunga, me te noho i te taha rerenga, i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ko ngā kaihāereere kāore e āhei atu te whai whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, me toro atu ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga. Me tuku rātou i tētahi tiwhikete rongoā ki a koe e kī ana e kore koe e āhei ki te whai tētahi whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, ā, kāore i a koe ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he whakamātautau tāu i mua i te wehenga e kī ana kua whai tohumate koe, engari e whakapono ana koe nā tētahi whakapokenga o mua o te KOWHEORI-19, me toro atu koe ki tētahi tākuta māna koe e tirotiro mō ngā tohumate hou o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e tino mōhio ana ia kāore i a koe tētahi pokenga KOWHEORI-19 i taua wā tonu, māna e tuku ki a koe: tētahi tiwhikete rongoā me te rā o tō whakamātautau o mua e kī ana kei te mate, ā, mēnā e hāngai ana, ngā tuhinga e whāki ana, e whakaaro ana ia kua kore koe e pokea e te KOWHEORI-19. E whakaaetia ana ngā tiwhikete rongoā i roto i ngā reo kē. E tino tohutohua ana te hunga haere ki te pātai ki tō(ō) rātau kamupene rererangi mō ētahi atu whakaritenga whakamātau i mua i te wehenga. E tohutohua ana hoki rātau kia tirotirohia nga whakaritenga o ētahi atu whenua ka whakawhitia e rātau. Mō ngā whakahounga hou rawa o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā toro atu ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te noho mohoao me te noho taratahi tēnā toro atu ki: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ka noho tonu ko te kauparenga nui mō tātou ko te ārai atu i te huaketo mai i Aotearoa. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi te nuinga o ngā kaihāereere ki Aotearoa i tētahi whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mua i te wehe e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana, i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga tuatahi ki tāwāhi. Ka wātea ngā whenua e whai ake nei i tētahi whakamātau i mua i te wehenga: Te Tiri o te Moana (Antarctica) Kuki Airani (The Cook Islands) Ngā Whenua Tōpū o Maikoronihia (Federated States of Micronesia) Whītī (Fiji) Kiripati Ngā Moutere o Marshall Nauru Kanaki (New Caledonia) Niue Pārao Hāmoa (Samoa) Ngā Motu o Horomona (Solomon Islands) Tokerau Tonga Tūwaru Whenuatū Kua whakaūngia e te Manatu Hauora ngā momo whakamātautau e whai ake nei e whakaaetia ana mō ngā whenua katoa hāunga ngā whenua o Ahitereiria me ngā whenua tino mōrearea: Whakamātau Whakarahi Waikawa Karihi (NAAT), kei roto ko te PCR, RT-PCR me te TMA, LAMP, whakamātau ā-paturopi (tērā pea e kīia ana he whakamātau wheori paturopi) rānei. E whakaritea ana kia whiwhi ngā kaihāereere mai i Ahitereiria i ngā whakamātautau PCR, RT-PCR rānei i mua i te wehenga. Me whai taunakitanga rawa ngā kaihāereere mai i ngā whenua tino mōrearea o tētahi whakamātautau ihu-korokoro RT-PCR (PCR) e kī ana kāore rātou i te mate mai i tētahi whare pūtaiao whaimana. Kimihia ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whenua tino mōrearea Ka wātea ngā tamariki i raro iho i te rua tau (24 marama) i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ka wātea ngā kaihāereere e whakawhiti ana mā Aotearoa ki tō rātou taunga whakamutunga, me te noho i te taha rerenga, i ngā whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga. Ko ngā kaihāereere kāore e āhei atu te whai whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, me toro atu ki tētahi tākuta i roto i te 72 hāora i mua i tō rātou wehenga. Me tuku rātou i tētahi tiwhikete rongoā ki a koe e kī ana e kore koe e āhei ki te whai tētahi whakamātautau nā ngā take rongoā, ā, kāore i a koe ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he whakamātautau tāu i mua i te wehenga e kī ana kua whai tohumate koe, engari e whakapono ana koe nā tētahi whakapokenga o mua o te KOWHEORI-19, me toro atu koe ki tētahi tākuta māna koe e tirotiro mō ngā tohumate hou o te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā e tino mōhio ana ia kāore i a koe tētahi pokenga KOWHEORI-19 i taua wā tonu, māna e tuku ki a koe: tētahi tiwhikete rongoā me te rā o tō whakamātautau o mua e kī ana kei te mate, ā, mēnā e hāngai ana, ngā tuhinga e whāki ana, e whakaaro ana ia kua kore koe e pokea e te KOWHEORI-19. E whakaaetia ana ngā tiwhikete rongoā i roto i ngā reo kē. E tino tohutohua ana te hunga haere ki te pātai ki tō(ō) rātau kamupene rererangi mō ētahi atu whakaritenga whakamātau i mua i te wehenga. E tohutohua ana hoki rātau kia tirotirohia nga whakaritenga o ētahi atu whenua ka whakawhitia e rātau. Mō ngā whakahounga hou rawa o te KOWHEORI-19, tēnā toro atu ki https://covid19.govt.nz/updates-and-resources/translations/ Mō ētahi atu mōhiohio mō te noho mohoao me te noho taratahi tēnā toro atu ki: https://www.miq.govt.nz/travel-to-new-zealand/arriving-in-nz/ (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel Te hāereere i Aotearoa | Travel around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- I ngā tautuhinga pūnaha rama toru katoa, ka taea e koe te hāereere ki ngā wāhi katoa o Aotearoa, ahakoa te take. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tētahi wāhi e rerekē ana te tautuhinga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā ture mō taua wāhi. Hei tauira, mēnā ka haere koe mai i te Karaka ki Whero, me whai koe i ngā ture mō tētahi rohe Whero. Ko te tikanga, e kore koe e mate ki te kawe i tētahi Tohu Ārai Mate, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei ki te hāereere. Engari: Ko te hunga e wehe ana i Tāmaki, me whiwhi Tohu Ārai Mate, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei tae atu ki te 17 o Kohitātea 2022. Tērā pea ka hiahia ētahi umanga kawe tangata(hei tauira, ngā rererangi, ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa) kia whakaatu koe i te Tohu Ārai Mate, i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 pānga kore rānei. Ehara i te mea me whiwhi Tohu Ārai Mate koe, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei i te wā e haere ana mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui. Me kaua e haere mēnā kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi, e tatari ana rānei mō ngā hua o tētahi whakamātautau. Mō ngā rama toru My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ngā whakamātautau Te whakawhiti i te rohenga o Tāmaki Makaurau I mua i tō haerenga, me whakarite me aha koe mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e haere ana. Me uru ki tō mahere me pēhea e hoki ai koe ki te kāinga me pēhea te hoko hinu mai (me tū koe i ngā whare hinu pākore anake) ngā mea ka hiahia koe ki te whakaiti i te rahinga o ngā tūnga Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Ina māuiuitia koe, ka whakaraerae rānei koe ki te KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e ngaro ana i te kāinga, me: waea ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu whakamātautau noho taratahi i tō wāhi noho mēnā he tohumate āu, kia whiwhi rā anō i te hua o te whakamātautau. waea ki 111 mēnā e hiahia ana koe i te āwhinatanga hauora kohuki, mēnā rānei he uaua ki a koe te hēhē. Whāki atu e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 Ki te tohu ake tō whakamātautau e pāngia ana koe, ka whakapā atu tētahi mātanga hauora ki a koe. Ka taea e koe te kōrerorero i ngā āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, ā, mēnā he haumaru anō mōu ki te hoki ki te kāinga. E kore e taea e koe te hoki mā te rererangi, te hautū waka ki tawhiti mehemea me moe mō te pō, me haere mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui rānei. Ka taea anake e koe te hoki ki te kāinga ki te noho taratahi mēnā e haumaru ana taua mahi. Kia mahara ake ki te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi i tae koe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, me tū tīrara. Ina kore e taea e koe te hoki haumaru atu ki te kāinga, me noho tonu koe i te wāhi kei konā koe.Ka wātea tonu ki a koe te tautoko ki te noho taratahi, hei wāhi o te hōtaka Care in the Community. Me whakamōhio koe i te kaipupuri/kaiwhakahaere o tō wāhi noho mēnā he pānga tata koe o tētahi kēhi, mēnā rānei koe i whakahoki i tētahi whakamātautau e tohu ana kua pāngia koe. He aha ngā tūmanakohanga i a koe e noho taratahi ana I a koe e hāereere ana, me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga manurere i runga i ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga (hei tauira, ngā taunga rererangi) i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i runga motokā tiri E whakatenatenahia ana hoki te mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā ka wehe koe i te kāinga. Kua whakaturehia te mau ārai kanohi hoki i ētahi wāhi, i runga anō i ētahi o ngā tautuhinga rama toru. Me mātua mōhio koe ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i tō haerenga. Hei aukati te horapatanga anamata o te KOWHEORI-19, me whaiwhai i ngā pānga o te hunga whakaraerae ki te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ka wāwāhi i te hono o te rerenga. Mā te kapo ake i ngā nekenekehanga o te tangata tātou e āwhina ki te mahi wawe, mahi whāomo i tēnei. Me whaiwhai i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te tikiake i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i te App Store (external link) , i Google Play (external link) rānei, mā te whakamahi rānei i tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer. Tīkina ake tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] Rapua ētahi atu kōrero e pā ana ki te whaiwhai pānga Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- I ngā tautuhinga pūnaha rama toru katoa, ka taea e koe te hāereere ki ngā wāhi katoa o Aotearoa, ahakoa te take. Mēnā e haere ana koe ki tētahi wāhi e rerekē ana te tautuhinga rama toru, me whai koe i ngā ture mō taua wāhi. Hei tauira, mēnā ka haere koe mai i te Karaka ki Whero, me whai koe i ngā ture mō tētahi rohe Whero. Ko te tikanga, e kore koe e mate ki te kawe i tētahi Tohu Ārai Mate, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei ki te hāereere. Engari: Ko te hunga e wehe ana i Tāmaki, me whiwhi Tohu Ārai Mate, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei tae atu ki te 17 o Kohitātea 2022. Tērā pea ka hiahia ētahi umanga kawe tangata(hei tauira, ngā rererangi, ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa) kia whakaatu koe i te Tohu Ārai Mate, i te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 pānga kore rānei. Ehara i te mea me whiwhi Tohu Ārai Mate koe, whakamātautau pānga kore rānei i te wā e haere ana mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui. Me kaua e haere mēnā kua kīia koe kia noho taratahi, e tatari ana rānei mō ngā hua o tētahi whakamātautau. Mō ngā rama toru My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ngā whakamātautau Te whakawhiti i te rohenga o Tāmaki Makaurau I mua i tō haerenga, me whakarite me aha koe mēnā ka pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e haere ana. Me uru ki tō mahere me pēhea e hoki ai koe ki te kāinga me pēhea te hoko hinu mai (me tū koe i ngā whare hinu pākore anake) ngā mea ka hiahia koe ki te whakaiti i te rahinga o ngā tūnga Tīkina ake tētahi arowhai Takatū KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 101 KB] Ina māuiuitia koe, ka whakaraerae rānei koe ki te KOWHEORI-19 i a koe e ngaro ana i te kāinga, me: waea ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 mō ngā tohutohu whakamātautau noho taratahi i tō wāhi noho mēnā he tohumate āu, kia whiwhi rā anō i te hua o te whakamātautau. waea ki 111 mēnā e hiahia ana koe i te āwhinatanga hauora kohuki, mēnā rānei he uaua ki a koe te hēhē. Whāki atu e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19 Ki te tohu ake tō whakamātautau e pāngia ana koe, ka whakapā atu tētahi mātanga hauora ki a koe. Ka taea e koe te kōrerorero i ngā āhuatanga hei mahi māhau, ā, mēnā he haumaru anō mōu ki te hoki ki te kāinga. E kore e taea e koe te hoki mā te rererangi, te hautū waka ki tawhiti mehemea me moe mō te pō, me haere mā runga waka kawe tūmatanui rānei. Ka taea anake e koe te hoki ki te kāinga ki te noho taratahi mēnā e haumaru ana taua mahi. Kia mahara ake ki te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi i tae koe, me mau ārai kanohi, ā, me tū tīrara. Ina kore e taea e koe te hoki haumaru atu ki te kāinga, me noho tonu koe i te wāhi kei konā koe.Ka wātea tonu ki a koe te tautoko ki te noho taratahi, hei wāhi o te hōtaka Care in the Community. Me whakamōhio koe i te kaipupuri/kaiwhakahaere o tō wāhi noho mēnā he pānga tata koe o tētahi kēhi, mēnā rānei koe i whakahoki i tētahi whakamātautau e tohu ana kua pāngia koe. He aha ngā tūmanakohanga i a koe e noho taratahi ana I a koe e hāereere ana, me mau ārai kanohi koe: i runga manurere i runga i ngā waka kōpiko o Te Moana o Raukawa i ngā wāhi taenga, wehenga (hei tauira, ngā taunga rererangi) i runga waka kawe tūmatanui i runga motokā tiri E whakatenatenahia ana hoki te mau ārai kanohi i ngā wā ka wehe koe i te kāinga. Kua whakaturehia te mau ārai kanohi hoki i ētahi wāhi, i runga anō i ētahi o ngā tautuhinga rama toru. Me mātua mōhio koe ki ngā whakaritenga i mua i tō haerenga. Hei aukati te horapatanga anamata o te KOWHEORI-19, me whaiwhai i ngā pānga o te hunga whakaraerae ki te KOWHEORI-19, ā, ka wāwāhi i te hono o te rerenga. Mā te kapo ake i ngā nekenekehanga o te tangata tātou e āwhina ki te mahi wawe, mahi whāomo i tēnei. Me whaiwhai i ngā wāhi kua tae koe mā te tikiake i te taupānga o NZ COVID Tracer i te App Store (external link) , i Google Play (external link) rānei, mā te whakamahi rānei i tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer. Tīkina ake tētahi puka NZ COVID Tracer [PDF, 2.7 MB] Rapua ētahi atu kōrero e pā ana ki te whaiwhai pānga Ahakoa he whenua a Aotearoa i nui te whirinaki ki te kano ārai mate, ka taea tonu e te KOWHEORI te horapa i te hapori. Hei whakapōturi i te horapatanga o te huaketo, me te āwhina anō ki te tiaki i a koutou ko tō whānau me tō hapori, me mea nui tonu kia whāia tonu ngā whanonga hauora: Me āta horoi me te whakamaroke i ō ringa. Me matihe, maremare hoki ki tō tuke. Me noho tawhiti koe mai i ētahi atu kāore koe i te mōhio. Me horoi, me patuero rānei ngā wāhi e tino whakamahia me ētahi atu. Mēnā he tohumate rewharewha, KOWHEORI-19 rānei āu, noho ki te kāinga, ā, me whai whakamātautau. Ka mahi tonu ngā ratonga ohotata i ngā whakaritenga katoa o te rama toru. I te wā o te ohotata, waea ki 111 . --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Haere kia werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate kore utu ināianei, ā, ka wete i ngā here ki ngā mea e arohatia ana e koe mā Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link)
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Ā muri i te whakatōnga o te kano ārai mate | After your immunisation --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Koinei tā te tinana urupare māori atu, ā, he tohu tēnei kei te whaihua te kano ārai mate. I te nuinga o te wā, he māmā noa iho te pānga, ka mutu kāore e roa taua pānga, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka nui ake pea ngā uruparenga i muri i te kainga tuarua o te rongoā ārai mate. Ka pāngia pea e ngā uruparenga kino rawa, engari, ruarua noa iho ngā wā e pēnei ana. Kua whakangungua ngā kaituku rongoā ārai mate ki te whakatikatika, te āwhina hoki ina pāngia te tangata e ēnei āhuatanga. Nā ngā uruparenga ka pāngia pea mō te wā poto tō āhei ki te taraiwa, te whakamahi rānei i ngā pūrere. Ki te puta tēnei āhuatanga, tēnā, kōrero ki tō kaitukumahi. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e whai pānga ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, pērā ki te maremare mutunga kore, he kirikā, he rerekē, ka ngaro rānei tō rongo ā-waha, ā-ihu rānei, me noho koe ki te kāinga ka whakamātauria ki te whakamātau KOWHEORI-19. Ki te raru pokanoa koe ki te wero KOWHEORI-19, me tuku pūrongo tō kaiwero ārai mate, mātanga hauora rānei ki te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). E taea ai hoki te whakapūrongo i ngā uruparenga pokanoa ki tō rātou puka pūrongo ā-ipurangi kei runga i te paetukutuku o CARM otago.ac.nz/carm (external link) . Mehemea kāore koe i te tino mōhio he aha te tikanga o ngā tohumate, ki te kaha ake rānei, me kōrero ki tō Tākuta, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mehemea kei te āwangawanga koe ki tō haumarutanga, waea atu ki 111 me te maumahara ki te kī atu kua whiwhi koe i tō wero ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai i a koe. He mea tiaki hoki te rongoā ārai mate i te tangata katoa ahakoa te pakeke ki ngā mate mau noa hoki, pērā ki te karawaka me te rewharewha. Tirohia kua whiwhi katoa koutou ko tō whānau i ngā wero ārai mate mā te kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Me haere ki health.govt.nz/immunisation (external link) mō ētahi atu kōrero. Me tatari mō te rua wiki rawa i muri i tō kainga tuarua o te wero KOWHEORI-19 i mua i ētahi atu wero ārai mate. --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Koinei tā te tinana urupare māori atu, ā, he tohu tēnei kei te whaihua te kano ārai mate. I te nuinga o te wā, he māmā noa iho te pānga, ka mutu kāore e roa taua pānga, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka nui ake pea ngā uruparenga i muri i te kainga tuarua o te rongoā ārai mate. Ka pāngia pea e ngā uruparenga kino rawa, engari, ruarua noa iho ngā wā e pēnei ana. Kua whakangungua ngā kaituku rongoā ārai mate ki te whakatikatika, te āwhina hoki ina pāngia te tangata e ēnei āhuatanga. Nā ngā uruparenga ka pāngia pea mō te wā poto tō āhei ki te taraiwa, te whakamahi rānei i ngā pūrere. Ki te puta tēnei āhuatanga, tēnā, kōrero ki tō kaitukumahi. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e whai pānga ana ki te KOWHEORI-19, pērā ki te maremare mutunga kore, he kirikā, he rerekē, ka ngaro rānei tō rongo ā-waha, ā-ihu rānei, me noho koe ki te kāinga ka whakamātauria ki te whakamātau KOWHEORI-19. Ki te raru pokanoa koe ki te wero KOWHEORI-19, me tuku pūrongo tō kaiwero ārai mate, mātanga hauora rānei ki te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). E taea ai hoki te whakapūrongo i ngā uruparenga pokanoa ki tō rātou puka pūrongo ā-ipurangi kei runga i te paetukutuku o CARM otago.ac.nz/carm (external link) . Mehemea kāore koe i te tino mōhio he aha te tikanga o ngā tohumate, ki te kaha ake rānei, me kōrero ki tō Tākuta, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mehemea kei te āwangawanga koe ki tō haumarutanga, waea atu ki 111 me te maumahara ki te kī atu kua whiwhi koe i tō wero ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai i a koe. He mea tiaki hoki te rongoā ārai mate i te tangata katoa ahakoa te pakeke ki ngā mate mau noa hoki, pērā ki te karawaka me te rewharewha. Tirohia kua whiwhi katoa koutou ko tō whānau i ngā wero ārai mate mā te kōrero ki tō kaiwhakarato hauora. Me haere ki health.govt.nz/immunisation (external link) mō ētahi atu kōrero. Me tatari mō te rua wiki rawa i muri i tō kainga tuarua o te wero KOWHEORI-19 i mua i ētahi atu wero ārai mate. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te tāpui i tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 | Booking your COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko te huarahi tere rawa o te whakarite i ō toronga kano ārai mate, ko te tāpui ā-tuihono mā Book My Vaccine (external link) . Mēnā kāore anō koe kia māraurau ki te tāpui, ka taea e koe te rēhita kia pai ai tā mātou whakamōhio atu i a koe i te wā tika mōu ki te tāpui. Ka āhua 5 mineti pea te roa o te tāpui ā-tuihono. Mēnā ka pā ētahi raruraru tāpui, e hiahia ana rānei koe ki te panoni i ō taipitopito, ka taea e koe te īmēra mai ki te rōpū o Book My Vaccine. Īmēra: booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz Book My Vaccine (external link) Ka taea e koe te tāpui mā te waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Me tatari pea koe i mua i te whakaututanga o tō waea, i te mea ka pokea ngā waea — kia manawanui mai. Kia whakautua tō waea, ka āhua 15 mineti ka pau ki te tāpui i ō toronga. Kia waea mai koe, he pai tonu mēnā e rite ana tō tau NHI (Taupū Hauora ā-Motu). Mā tēnei e tere ake ai te tukanga tāpui. Ka kitea tō tau NHI i runga i tētahi whakahau rongoā, tētahi hua whakamātau, whakaahua hihi-x, tētahi reta rānei mai i te hōhipera. Whakahaeretia ō toronga mā Book My Vaccine (external link) Waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, me whakarite toronga anō. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia ora mai koe. Mēnā he tohumate āu o te KOWHEORI-19, haere kia whakamātautauria, ā, noho ki te kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō i ō hua. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia puta rā anō te whakamātautau e kī ana kāore koe i te pāngia ki te mate. I tua atu i te tāpui toronga, tērā ētahi atu huarahi e whiwhi ai te tangata i ngā kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate i te wāhi mahi me ētahi atu kaupapa kano ārai mate motuhake puta noa i te motu. Mō ētahi hapori tuawhenua mamao, ka tuku mātou i ngā kano ārai mate ki ngā reanga katoa i te wā kotahi kia māmā ake ai mō rātou. He nui hoki ngā tākuta e whakarato ana i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ā, whakarite tōtika ana i ngā tāpuitanga. Kia mōhio ai mēnā e tuku ana tō tākuta i tēnei ratonga, haere ki Healthpoint. Kano ārai mate COVID-19 — Healthpoint (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te huarahi tere rawa o te whakarite i ō toronga kano ārai mate, ko te tāpui ā-tuihono mā Book My Vaccine (external link) . Mēnā kāore anō koe kia māraurau ki te tāpui, ka taea e koe te rēhita kia pai ai tā mātou whakamōhio atu i a koe i te wā tika mōu ki te tāpui. Ka āhua 5 mineti pea te roa o te tāpui ā-tuihono. Mēnā ka pā ētahi raruraru tāpui, e hiahia ana rānei koe ki te panoni i ō taipitopito, ka taea e koe te īmēra mai ki te rōpū o Book My Vaccine. Īmēra: booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz Book My Vaccine (external link) Ka taea e koe te tāpui mā te waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . He kore utu ngā waea katoa, ā, e wātea ana te rōpū mai i te 8am ki te 8pm, e whitu rā i te wiki. Ka taea e koe te tono kaiwhakamāori ki te hiahiatia tētahi. Me tatari pea koe i mua i te whakaututanga o tō waea, i te mea ka pokea ngā waea — kia manawanui mai. Kia whakautua tō waea, ka āhua 15 mineti ka pau ki te tāpui i ō toronga. Kia waea mai koe, he pai tonu mēnā e rite ana tō tau NHI (Taupū Hauora ā-Motu). Mā tēnei e tere ake ai te tukanga tāpui. Ka kitea tō tau NHI i runga i tētahi whakahau rongoā, tētahi hua whakamātau, whakaahua hihi-x, tētahi reta rānei mai i te hōhipera. Whakahaeretia ō toronga mā Book My Vaccine (external link) Waea atu ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, me whakarite toronga anō. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia ora mai koe. Mēnā he tohumate āu o te KOWHEORI-19, haere kia whakamātautauria, ā, noho ki te kāinga kia whiwhi rā anō i ō hua. Ka taea te whiwhi kano ārai mate kia puta rā anō te whakamātautau e kī ana kāore koe i te pāngia ki te mate. I tua atu i te tāpui toronga, tērā ētahi atu huarahi e whiwhi ai te tangata i ngā kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate i te wāhi mahi me ētahi atu kaupapa kano ārai mate motuhake puta noa i te motu. Mō ētahi hapori tuawhenua mamao, ka tuku mātou i ngā kano ārai mate ki ngā reanga katoa i te wā kotahi kia māmā ake ai mō rātou. He nui hoki ngā tākuta e whakarato ana i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ā, whakarite tōtika ana i ngā tāpuitanga. Kia mōhio ai mēnā e tuku ana tō tākuta i tēnei ratonga, haere ki Healthpoint. Kano ārai mate COVID-19 — Healthpoint (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19: ngā mea, i tōna tikanga, ka puta | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: What to expect --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko ngā kano ārai mate tētahi huarahi e ārai ai tātou i te mate urutā o KOWHEORI-19, hei tiaki hoki i te oranga o ō tātou hapori. Kāore he utu o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka tiaki ngā kano ārai mate i tō hauora, ā, ka ārai atu i te mate mā te mahi tahi me ngā wāhanga papare o tō tinana e kaha ai koe ki te ārai atu i te wheori, mehemea ka noho mōrearea koe. Ka whaihua te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mā te whakaoho i tō pūnaha awhikiri e hua mai ai ngā paturopi, ngā pūtau toto hoki e whai nei ki te ārai i te wheori o KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 tētahi mahi hei whāinga māu e ārai ai koe i a koe anō i ngā pānga o te wheori. Heoi anō, kāore mātou i te mōhio mēnā ka riro mā tēnei e mutu ai tō pāngia rānei e te wheori, tō whakapā atu rānei i te wheori ki tangata kē. Kia uru ki a koe te kano ārai mate, me tūpato tonu hei aukati wawe i te horapa haeretanga o KOWHEORI-19. Me āta horoi, me āta whakamaroke hoki ō ringaringa. Me maremare, me matihe hoki ki tō tuke, ā, me noho ki te kāinga mehemea ka māuiui koe. Mā tēnei koe e āwhina ki te tiaki i a koe anō, i tō whānau, i ētahi atu hoki. Me whakamahi tonu i te taupānga whakatewhatewha mō KOWHEORI, whakakāngia te wāhanga o te Hono Iarere o tō waea, ā, tērā pea ka hiahia koe ki te mau i tō tākai mata, i tō ārai mata rānei. Whakaae noa ai a Medsafe kia whakamahia te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa i te wā e whakaae ana rātou kua eke ki te taumata o te haumaru, o te whaihua hoki e tika ana kia whakamahia. Kotahi tonu te whakamātautau haumaru me whai e ngā kano ārai mate katoa e pā ana ki a KOWHEORI- 19, ka mutu me eke te katoa ki ōna paerewa ruarangi e ōrite ana. Kāore koe e pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 mā tēnei kano ārai mate. Me rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga, kia āhua toru wiki te roa i waenga i ngā mea e rua. E eke ai te tiakanga ōu ki te taumata, me whai koe kia rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga ōu ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore koe e tae atu i te wā kua whakaritea, me wawe tonu tō whakarite i tētahi atu wā. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te pāwera kino rawa atu, mēnā rānei i tere tonu te pāngia ōu e te pāwera nā te kano ārai mate, nā te werohanga rānei i mua, tēnā kōrerotia tēnei ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki te rongoā whakawaiwai toto, mēnā rānei e pāngia ana koe e te mate ā-toto, whakamōhiotia te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e hapū ana koe, e whāngai pēpē ana rānei koe ki te ū, tēnā kōrero atu ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate, ki tō tākuta rānei, ki tō tapuhi whakawhānau rānei. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki ngā rongoā mō te mate pukupuku, arā, ki a Keytruda rānei, ki a Opdivo rānei, ki a Yervoy rānei, ki a Tecentriq rānei, kōrero ki tō mātanga e mōhio ai koe mēnā me whāngai koe ki te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā, kāore mātou i te whakawātea i te kano ārai mate a Pfizer ki te hunga e tamariki ake ana i te 12 tau te pakeke kia wātea mai he raraunga atu anō. Mēnā e rongo ana koe i ngā tohumate o KOWHEORI-19, whāia kia whakamātauhia koe, ā, e noho ki te kāinga tae noa ki te wā ka whiwhi koe i ngā hua mōu. E whakaaetia ana kia whāngaia koe ki te kano ārai mate ā te wā tonu e kī ana ngā hua o tō whakamātautau kāore koe e pāngia ana . Me tatari kia pau te 20 meneti i muri i te whāngaia ōu ki te kano ārai mate kia kite ai ngā kaimahi hauora kāore e pērā rawa ana te kino o te pāngia ōu e te pāwera. Ko te kōrero nui katoa ka puta mō ngā tauhohenga, ko te mamae o te wāhi i werohia ai, ko te ānini o te māhunga, ko te rongo rānei i te ngenge, i te ruha rānei. Tērā pea ka rangona hoki te mamae o ngā uaua, te māuiui noa iho nei, te hūwiniwini, te kirikā, te mamae o ngā ponapona me te whakapai ruaki. He tohu tēnei e whaihua ana te kano ārai mate. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Ko aua mate rā ka kitea nuitia ana, ka māmā noa iho i te nuinga o te wā, ka mutu kāore e roa ana te mate, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka pā pea ētahi mate āpiti ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. He wā ōna ka puta ētahi mate pāwera kino nei, engari me uaua ka kitea. Kua whakangungua ā mātou kaiwhāngai i te tangata ki te kano ārai mate kia whakahaerehia ēnei āhuatanga. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te maremare hou e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, whakaritea hoki kia whakamātautauria tō tinana mō KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kāore koe i te mōhio ki te āhua o ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waeahia te Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ka āta kī atu ai ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. www.health.govt.nz/covid-vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko ngā kano ārai mate tētahi huarahi e ārai ai tātou i te mate urutā o KOWHEORI-19, hei tiaki hoki i te oranga o ō tātou hapori. Kāore he utu o te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa. Ka tiaki ngā kano ārai mate i tō hauora, ā, ka ārai atu i te mate mā te mahi tahi me ngā wāhanga papare o tō tinana e kaha ai koe ki te ārai atu i te wheori, mehemea ka noho mōrearea koe. Ka whaihua te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 mā te whakaoho i tō pūnaha awhikiri e hua mai ai ngā paturopi, ngā pūtau toto hoki e whai nei ki te ārai i te wheori o KOWHEORI-19. Ko te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 tētahi mahi hei whāinga māu e ārai ai koe i a koe anō i ngā pānga o te wheori. Heoi anō, kāore mātou i te mōhio mēnā ka riro mā tēnei e mutu ai tō pāngia rānei e te wheori, tō whakapā atu rānei i te wheori ki tangata kē. Kia uru ki a koe te kano ārai mate, me tūpato tonu hei aukati wawe i te horapa haeretanga o KOWHEORI-19. Me āta horoi, me āta whakamaroke hoki ō ringaringa. Me maremare, me matihe hoki ki tō tuke, ā, me noho ki te kāinga mehemea ka māuiui koe. Mā tēnei koe e āwhina ki te tiaki i a koe anō, i tō whānau, i ētahi atu hoki. Me whakamahi tonu i te taupānga whakatewhatewha mō KOWHEORI, whakakāngia te wāhanga o te Hono Iarere o tō waea, ā, tērā pea ka hiahia koe ki te mau i tō tākai mata, i tō ārai mata rānei. Whakaae noa ai a Medsafe kia whakamahia te kano ārai mate i Aotearoa i te wā e whakaae ana rātou kua eke ki te taumata o te haumaru, o te whaihua hoki e tika ana kia whakamahia. Kotahi tonu te whakamātautau haumaru me whai e ngā kano ārai mate katoa e pā ana ki a KOWHEORI- 19, ka mutu me eke te katoa ki ōna paerewa ruarangi e ōrite ana. Kāore koe e pāngia e KOWHEORI-19 mā tēnei kano ārai mate. Me rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga, kia āhua toru wiki te roa i waenga i ngā mea e rua. E eke ai te tiakanga ōu ki te taumata, me whai koe kia rua rawa ngā whāngaitanga ōu ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore koe e tae atu i te wā kua whakaritea, me wawe tonu tō whakarite i tētahi atu wā. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e te pāwera kino rawa atu, mēnā rānei i tere tonu te pāngia ōu e te pāwera nā te kano ārai mate, nā te werohanga rānei i mua, tēnā kōrerotia tēnei ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki te rongoā whakawaiwai toto, mēnā rānei e pāngia ana koe e te mate ā-toto, whakamōhiotia te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate. Mēnā e hapū ana koe, e whāngai pēpē ana rānei koe ki te ū, tēnā kōrero atu ki te kaiwhāngai i a koe ki te kano ārai mate, ki tō tākuta rānei, ki tō tapuhi whakawhānau rānei. Mēnā e whāngaia ana koe ki ngā rongoā mō te mate pukupuku, arā, ki a Keytruda rānei, ki a Opdivo rānei, ki a Yervoy rānei, ki a Tecentriq rānei, kōrero ki tō mātanga e mōhio ai koe mēnā me whāngai koe ki te kano ārai mate. I tēnei wā, kāore mātou i te whakawātea i te kano ārai mate a Pfizer ki te hunga e tamariki ake ana i te 12 tau te pakeke kia wātea mai he raraunga atu anō. Mēnā e rongo ana koe i ngā tohumate o KOWHEORI-19, whāia kia whakamātauhia koe, ā, e noho ki te kāinga tae noa ki te wā ka whiwhi koe i ngā hua mōu. E whakaaetia ana kia whāngaia koe ki te kano ārai mate ā te wā tonu e kī ana ngā hua o tō whakamātautau kāore koe e pāngia ana . Me tatari kia pau te 20 meneti i muri i te whāngaia ōu ki te kano ārai mate kia kite ai ngā kaimahi hauora kāore e pērā rawa ana te kino o te pāngia ōu e te pāwera. Ko te kōrero nui katoa ka puta mō ngā tauhohenga, ko te mamae o te wāhi i werohia ai, ko te ānini o te māhunga, ko te rongo rānei i te ngenge, i te ruha rānei. Tērā pea ka rangona hoki te mamae o ngā uaua, te māuiui noa iho nei, te hūwiniwini, te kirikā, te mamae o ngā ponapona me te whakapai ruaki. He tohu tēnei e whaihua ana te kano ārai mate. Pēnei i ngā rongoā katoa, tērā pea he mate āpiti ka pā atu ki ētahi tāngata. Ko aua mate rā ka kitea nuitia ana, ka māmā noa iho i te nuinga o te wā, ka mutu kāore e roa ana te mate, ā, ehara i te mea mā ērā e aukati tō whai i te tuarua o ngā kano ārai mate, e whakararu rānei ō mahi o ia rā. Ka pā pea ētahi mate āpiti ki tō kaha ki te hautū waka, ki te whakamahi mīhini rānei. He wā ōna ka puta ētahi mate pāwera kino nei, engari me uaua ka kitea. Kua whakangungua ā mātou kaiwhāngai i te tangata ki te kano ārai mate kia whakahaerehia ēnei āhuatanga. Ki te pāngia koe e ngā tohumate e hāngai ana pea ki a KOWHEORI-19, pērā i te maremare hou e auau ana, i te teitei o te pāmahana, i te kirikā rānei, i te korenga rānei, i te panonitanga rānei o ō tairongo māori ā-tako rānei, ā-ihu rānei, e noho ki te kāinga, whakaritea hoki kia whakamātautauria tō tinana mō KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kāore koe i te mōhio ki te āhua o ō tohumate, ki te kino haere rānei ō tohumate, waeahia te Healthline mā te 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā he māharahara inamata tōu e pā ana ki tō haumarutanga, waeahia te 111 , ka āta kī atu ai ki a rātou kua werohia koe ki te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 kia tika ai tā rātou tirotiro i a koe. www.health.govt.nz/covid-vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate | How to get a vaccine Ko wai e āhei ana ki tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? | Who can get a COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene, ā, ka tiakina tō matataputanga. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. I konei koe ka kite i ngā mōhiohio whaitake o te hunga e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate, tae atu ki ngā āhuatanga pēnei i tō pakeke, mēnā e hapū ana, e whāngote ana rānei, mēnā he pānga pāwera tāu ki te kano ārai mate i mua, mēnā rānei he tūmomo mate mauroa tāhau. E kore e taea e ngā tāngata i raro i te 12 tau te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i tēnei wā. Ko ngā whakaaturanga mai o te kano ārai mate, he tino whaihua, haumaru hoki mā ngā tāngata pakeke ake i te 65 tau. E pai ana mā te hunga kaimanga. Kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Kāore hoki he paturopi, he hua toto, he DNA, he pūmua, he matū kōpū, he kurutene, he hua poaka, he tāroki, he hoi, kāore rānei he latex (i hangaia mai te taupoki ipuipu i te rapa horihori - bromobutyl). Rapua te rārangi whakauru nui o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer (external link) Mēnā e hapū ana koe, ka taea e koe tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i ngā wāhanga hapūtanga katoa. E whakaatu ana ngā raraunga mai i te maha o ngā tāngata hapū kua whiwhi kē i te kano ārai mate i te ao, kāore he māharahara haumaru tāpiri o te tuku i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka whai hua pea te pēpi mai i te tuku kano ārai mate i te hapūtanga, i te mea he taunakitanga e whakaatu ana i te tukunga o te paturopi i te toto taura me te waiū, e tuku ana pea i te āraitanga ki ngā pēpi mā te awhikiri taupoto. Mēnā he pātai āu, māharahara rānei, kōrerotia ki tō mātanga hauora. Mēnā e whakaaro ana koe i tētahi hapūtanga ka taea tonu e koe te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore e pā kinotia ō ira, tō matahua rānei e te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore te mRNA mai i te kano ārai mate e kuhu ki te karihi o ngā ira, te wāhi o tō DNA. Kāore he wāhanga o te kano ārai mate, o te pūmua koikoi rānei ka hua mai, e tae ki te wharekano, ngā raho rānei. Mēnā i pā tētahi pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrerotia atu tēnei ki tō tākuta, mātanga hauora, kaituku kano rānei. Kaua e haere ki te tiki kano ārai mēnā he hītori tāu o te whai tauhohe pāwera tino taumaha: ki tētahi whakaurunga o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki tētahi werohanga o mua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer He aha kei roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, e aua atu te mate kirikā i te 38°C, me whakatārewa e koe tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia ora mai ai koe. Kāore e taea e koe te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e whiwhi ana koe i ētahi atu kano ārai mate. Me tatari mō tētahi wā, i runga anō i te āhua o te kano ārai mate. Tatari mō te 2 wiki i waenga i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te kano ārai mate rewharewha. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā wehenga o ēnei werohanga e rua. Ka taea e koe te kano ārai mate rewharewha atu i te 2 wiki i muri i tō werohanga tuarua. Mēnā kāore ō toronga whakarite mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, tīkina tō kano ārai mate rewharewha i te tuatahi. Ka taea e koe tō werohanga KOWHEORI-19 tuatahi i te 2 wiki i muri mai o tēnei. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā i waenga i ēnei werohanga e rua. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 2 wiki i muri o te werohanga tuarua, i mua o tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate MMR. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate MMR i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 4 wiki i mua i tō whiwhinga i te werohanga tuatahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. Ka taea e koe te āheinga wawe ki te kano ārai mate mēnā kei tua koe o te 16 tau, ā, ka ea i a koe tētahi, ētahi rānei o ngā paearu nei: He mate hauora tāu, ko te tikanga o tēnei mate e māraurau ana koe mō te kano ārai mate rewharewha ka utua e te kāwanatanga, tae atu ki te hunga e hapū ana. Kua kohuratia koe ki te mate hinengaro taumaha (tae atu ki te mate tuakoi, mate pāpouri nui, mate bipolar, mate huinga tohumate tuakoi maha rānei, me ngā pākeke e whiwhi ana i te hauora hinengaro tuarua, tuatoru rānei me ngā ratonga waranga). He ngoikore te whakahaeretanga o te pēhanga toto nui, he taumaha rānei te pēhanga toto nui. I tēnei āhuatanga, ko te whakamārama o te taumaha, me whiwhi i ngā rongoā whakahaere e rua, neke atu rānei. He tino mōmona koe (kua tautuhia hei BMI ≥40). Mō ētahi atu tohutohu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te wā e pāngia ana e ngā mate taumaha, e whiwhi maimoatanga ana, mātaitanga, kai rongoā rānei, tēnā haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Kupu tohutohu kano ārai mate mā ngā rōpū motuhake me ngā tūmate hauora - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene, ā, ka tiakina tō matataputanga. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. I konei koe ka kite i ngā mōhiohio whaitake o te hunga e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate, tae atu ki ngā āhuatanga pēnei i tō pakeke, mēnā e hapū ana, e whāngote ana rānei, mēnā he pānga pāwera tāu ki te kano ārai mate i mua, mēnā rānei he tūmomo mate mauroa tāhau. E kore e taea e ngā tāngata i raro i te 12 tau te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer i tēnei wā. Ko ngā whakaaturanga mai o te kano ārai mate, he tino whaihua, haumaru hoki mā ngā tāngata pakeke ake i te 65 tau. E pai ana mā te hunga kaimanga. Kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Kāore hoki he paturopi, he hua toto, he DNA, he pūmua, he matū kōpū, he kurutene, he hua poaka, he tāroki, he hoi, kāore rānei he latex (i hangaia mai te taupoki ipuipu i te rapa horihori - bromobutyl). Rapua te rārangi whakauru nui o te kano ārai mate a Pfizer (external link) Mēnā e hapū ana koe, ka taea e koe tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i ngā wāhanga hapūtanga katoa. E whakaatu ana ngā raraunga mai i te maha o ngā tāngata hapū kua whiwhi kē i te kano ārai mate i te ao, kāore he māharahara haumaru tāpiri o te tuku i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka whai hua pea te pēpi mai i te tuku kano ārai mate i te hapūtanga, i te mea he taunakitanga e whakaatu ana i te tukunga o te paturopi i te toto taura me te waiū, e tuku ana pea i te āraitanga ki ngā pēpi mā te awhikiri taupoto. Mēnā he pātai āu, māharahara rānei, kōrerotia ki tō mātanga hauora. Mēnā e whakaaro ana koe i tētahi hapūtanga ka taea tonu e koe te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore e pā kinotia ō ira, tō matahua rānei e te kano ārai mate a Pfizer. E kore te mRNA mai i te kano ārai mate e kuhu ki te karihi o ngā ira, te wāhi o tō DNA. Kāore he wāhanga o te kano ārai mate, o te pūmua koikoi rānei ka hua mai, e tae ki te wharekano, ngā raho rānei. Mēnā i pā tētahi pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrerotia atu tēnei ki tō tākuta, mātanga hauora, kaituku kano rānei. Kaua e haere ki te tiki kano ārai mēnā he hītori tāu o te whai tauhohe pāwera tino taumaha: ki tētahi whakaurunga o te kano ārai mate Pfizer ki tētahi werohanga o mua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer He aha kei roto i te kano ārai mate Pfizer - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e māuiui ana koe i te rā o tō toronga, e aua atu te mate kirikā i te 38°C, me whakatārewa e koe tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia ora mai ai koe. Kāore e taea e koe te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te wā e whiwhi ana koe i ētahi atu kano ārai mate. Me tatari mō tētahi wā, i runga anō i te āhua o te kano ārai mate. Tatari mō te 2 wiki i waenga i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me te kano ārai mate rewharewha. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā wehenga o ēnei werohanga e rua. Ka taea e koe te kano ārai mate rewharewha atu i te 2 wiki i muri i tō werohanga tuarua. Mēnā kāore ō toronga whakarite mō te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, tīkina tō kano ārai mate rewharewha i te tuatahi. Ka taea e koe tō werohanga KOWHEORI-19 tuatahi i te 2 wiki i muri mai o tēnei. E tūtohu ana mātou kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi - e 3 wiki te itinga o te wā i waenga i ēnei werohanga e rua. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 2 wiki i muri o te werohanga tuarua, i mua o tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate MMR. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate MMR i te tuatahi, me tatari koe mō te itinga o te 4 wiki i mua i tō whiwhinga i te werohanga tuatahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. Ka taea e koe te āheinga wawe ki te kano ārai mate mēnā kei tua koe o te 16 tau, ā, ka ea i a koe tētahi, ētahi rānei o ngā paearu nei: He mate hauora tāu, ko te tikanga o tēnei mate e māraurau ana koe mō te kano ārai mate rewharewha ka utua e te kāwanatanga, tae atu ki te hunga e hapū ana. Kua kohuratia koe ki te mate hinengaro taumaha (tae atu ki te mate tuakoi, mate pāpouri nui, mate bipolar, mate huinga tohumate tuakoi maha rānei, me ngā pākeke e whiwhi ana i te hauora hinengaro tuarua, tuatoru rānei me ngā ratonga waranga). He ngoikore te whakahaeretanga o te pēhanga toto nui, he taumaha rānei te pēhanga toto nui. I tēnei āhuatanga, ko te whakamārama o te taumaha, me whiwhi i ngā rongoā whakahaere e rua, neke atu rānei. He tino mōmona koe (kua tautuhia hei BMI ≥40). Mō ētahi atu tohutohu mō te whiwhi kano ārai mate i te wā e pāngia ana e ngā mate taumaha, e whiwhi maimoatanga ana, mātaitanga, kai rongoā rānei, tēnā haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora. Kupu tohutohu kano ārai mate mā ngā rōpū motuhake me ngā tūmate hauora - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated International Travel Vaccination Certificate (Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere) --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, kua whiwhi i tētahi pota kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Ka whai ēnei tiwhikete i ngā paerewa Tiwhikete Matihiko KOWHEORI a te EU. He rerekē pea ngā herenga o ētahi atu whenua. I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi tēnā tirohia ngā herenga o te whenua e haere atu nā koe. Me whai hoki koe i ngā tukanga manene noa mō te whenua e haere nā koe. Ka hiahiatia pea ētahi atu whāinga, pēnei i te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga atu, e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana. He waehere QR kei tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere, ka matawaitia i te wā e hāereere ana koe. Kei roto ngā taipitopito o ngā werohanga ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whiwhi koe i Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te puri i tēnei tiwhikete ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mana tēnei tiwhikete mō te 12 marama. Me ōrite ngā taipitopito o tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere ki ō tō puka uruwhenua. Ka taea te tirotiro i ō taipitopito whaiaro i te wā e tono ana koe i te tiwhikete. He tere, māmā hoki te tono i tō tiwhikete. Ka īmēratia atu tō tiwhikete ki a koe i te 24 hāora. Ko te huarahi tere rawa e whiwhi ai koe i tō tiwhikete, mā te My Covid Record. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te rōpū o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Takiuru ki My Covid Record. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpakona te ‘International certificate’ kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō tiwhikete kano ārai mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request certificate’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tiwhikete hāreere hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tiwhikete hāereere ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Ka taea anake e koe te whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere mēnā i werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi, me tono koe i tētahi tiwhikete mai i taua whenua, e taea ai e koe te puta ki waho o Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki ō pota e rua i tāwāhi, e kore rawa koe e whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere i Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, kua whiwhi i tētahi pota kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Ka whai ēnei tiwhikete i ngā paerewa Tiwhikete Matihiko KOWHEORI a te EU. He rerekē pea ngā herenga o ētahi atu whenua. I mua i te haere ki tāwāhi tēnā tirohia ngā herenga o te whenua e haere atu nā koe. Me whai hoki koe i ngā tukanga manene noa mō te whenua e haere nā koe. Ka hiahiatia pea ētahi atu whāinga, pēnei i te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga atu, e kī ana kāore koe e pāngia ana. He waehere QR kei tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere, ka matawaitia i te wā e hāereere ana koe. Kei roto ngā taipitopito o ngā werohanga ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whiwhi koe i Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te puri i tēnei tiwhikete ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mana tēnei tiwhikete mō te 12 marama. Me ōrite ngā taipitopito o tō Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere ki ō tō puka uruwhenua. Ka taea te tirotiro i ō taipitopito whaiaro i te wā e tono ana koe i te tiwhikete. He tere, māmā hoki te tono i tō tiwhikete. Ka īmēratia atu tō tiwhikete ki a koe i te 24 hāora. Ko te huarahi tere rawa e whiwhi ai koe i tō tiwhikete, mā te My Covid Record. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te rōpū o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Takiuru ki My Covid Record. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpakona te ‘International certificate’ kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō tiwhikete kano ārai mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request certificate’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tiwhikete hāreere hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tiwhikete hāereere ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Ka taea anake e koe te whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere mēnā i werohia koe ki tō kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i tāwāhi, me tono koe i tētahi tiwhikete mai i taua whenua, e taea ai e koe te puta ki waho o Aotearoa. Mēnā i werohia koe ki ō pota e rua i tāwāhi, e kore rawa koe e whiwhi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere i Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. I ahu mai ngā mōhiohio i tō My Covid Record i ngā raraunga e puritia ana i te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI ā-motu (CIR). He take nui ki a mātou tō tūmataititanga. Ko koe anake ka āhei atu ki tō My Covid Record, otirā he haumaru. Me manatoko rā anō tō pūkete mā tētahi tohu tuakiri whaimana. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te My Vaccine Pass Rapua he kōrero anō mō te Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere E taea ana e te hunga katoa o Aotearoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, te hono ake. Hei whakamahi i te My Covid Record: Whakaritea tētahi My Health Account - mā tēnei e uru ai koe ki ō mōhiohio hauora tuihono. Me whiwhi koe i tāu ake wāhitau īmēra ki te whakarite i tētahi pūkete. Me whakarato hoki koe i tētahi o ēnei tuhinga e whai ake nei, kia whakaū ai mātou i tō tuakiri: He raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei He uruwhenua Ahitereiria, tētahi tiwhikete whānautanga nō reira rānei He raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei He uruwhenua Ahitereiria, tētahi tiwhikete whānautanga nō reira rānei Takiuru ki My Covid Record mā te ingoa kaiwhakamahi me te kupumuna o My Health Account. Ka taea hoki e koe te takiuru mā te RealMe, he pae e āhei ai koe ki te whakauru i ngā ratonga tuihono maha mā te ingoa kaiwhakamahi me te kupumuna kotahi, ā, me te hāpono haumaru ko wai koe i runga ipurangi. Kia uru atu koe ki My Covid Record, ka kite koe i ō pūkete kano ārai mate, me te whiwhi i te Kōkota Kano Ārai Mate, te Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere rānei. Ki te kore e taea e koe te uru atu ki My Covid Record mā tō tohu tuakiri o te wā nei, kāore rānei i a koe tētahi o ngā momo tohu tuakiri e whakaaetia ana, ka taea te whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora, e whiwhi ai koe i tētahi Kōkota Kano Ārai. Whakaritea mai tō nama NHI - tērā pea ka pātaitia koe ki ētahi pātai hei whakaū i tō tuakiri, pēnei i tō ingoa me tō rā whānau. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te tira o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) --- Section Separator --- He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mā te pae tukutuku ka taea e koe te tono i: My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. I ahu mai ngā mōhiohio i tō My Covid Record i ngā raraunga e puritia ana i te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI ā-motu (CIR). He take nui ki a mātou tō tūmataititanga. Ko koe anake ka āhei atu ki tō My Covid Record, otirā he haumaru. Me manatoko rā anō tō pūkete mā tētahi tohu tuakiri whaimana. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te My Vaccine Pass Rapua he kōrero anō mō te Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere E taea ana e te hunga katoa o Aotearoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau, te hono ake. Hei whakamahi i te My Covid Record: Whakaritea tētahi My Health Account - mā tēnei e uru ai koe ki ō mōhiohio hauora tuihono. Me whiwhi koe i tāu ake wāhitau īmēra ki te whakarite i tētahi pūkete. Me whakarato hoki koe i tētahi o ēnei tuhinga e whai ake nei, kia whakaū ai mātou i tō tuakiri: He raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei He uruwhenua Ahitereiria, tētahi tiwhikete whānautanga nō reira rānei He raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei He uruwhenua Ahitereiria, tētahi tiwhikete whānautanga nō reira rānei Takiuru ki My Covid Record mā te ingoa kaiwhakamahi me te kupumuna o My Health Account. Ka taea hoki e koe te takiuru mā te RealMe, he pae e āhei ai koe ki te whakauru i ngā ratonga tuihono maha mā te ingoa kaiwhakamahi me te kupumuna kotahi, ā, me te hāpono haumaru ko wai koe i runga ipurangi. Kia uru atu koe ki My Covid Record, ka kite koe i ō pūkete kano ārai mate, me te whiwhi i te Kōkota Kano Ārai Mate, te Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere rānei. Ki te kore e taea e koe te uru atu ki My Covid Record mā tō tohu tuakiri o te wā nei, kāore rānei i a koe tētahi o ngā momo tohu tuakiri e whakaaetia ana, ka taea te whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora, e whiwhi ai koe i tētahi Kōkota Kano Ārai. Whakaritea mai tō nama NHI - tērā pea ka pātaitia koe ki ētahi pātai hei whakaū i tō tuakiri, pēnei i tō ingoa me tō rā whānau. Mō te āwhina, tautoko rānei, whakapā atu ki te tira o te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, mā te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) --- Section Separator --- He waehere QR a Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, e taea ai te whakamahi hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Ko tēnei anake te momo hāpono e whakaaetia ana. E kore e whakaaetia te kāri kano ārai mate waiporoporo i whiwhi pea koe i muri i tō werohanga ki te kano ārai mate, tētahi reta whakaū kano ārai mate rānei, e whakaaetia ana hei hāpono o tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, ka āhei koe ki te uru atu ki ētahi kaupapa me ētahi wāhi e whakahaere kaupapa ana i raro i te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 (pūnaha rama toru). E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Ka taea e koe te tono Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mēnā: he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, ā, kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer i Aotearoa. kua werohia ki te kano ārai mate koe i tāwāhi otirā he kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia (external link) . kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i Aotearoa. he aweretanga hauora tāu. Kei tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate tō ingoa, te rā whānau me te waehere QR. Ka taea e koe te puri ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mōnehu tō tohu e ono marama i muri i te rā tuku. Ko te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record te huarahi tere e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. He wā poto noa iho te roa o te tono i tō tohu, ā, ka īmēratia atu ki a koe i roto i te 24 hāora. Rapu me pēhea te rēhita mō te My Covid Record Kia hono ake koe ki My Covid Record: Takiaru. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpako ‘My Vaccine Pass’ (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) ka tīpako i ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request pass’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tohu hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tohu ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Mēnā kāore koe e uru atu ki My Covid Record, e hiahia ana rānei ki te tono tohu mā tētahi atu, tēnā whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki te whānuitanga o ngā taiopenga, ngā wāhi me ngā taiao tūmatanui. Ko ēnei pea ko ngā: taiopenga ngā wāhi manaaki ngā pakihi pānga tata pēnei i ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā whare whakapakari tinana hākinakina ngā huihuinga whakapono. Ka matawai te pakihi/taiopenga/wāhi i te waehere QR i runga i tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mā te taupānga manatoko tohu. Mā tēnei taupānga i whakaū i tō tūnga kano ārai. Ka tonoa pea koe ki te whakaatu i tō tuakiri ki te whakaū mēnā nāu tonu te tohu. E kore te taupānga e puri i ō raraunga. E kore e whakaaturia ētahi atu mōhiohio i tua atu i tō ingoa me tō rā whānau. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Tohu o Aotearoa E kore koe e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i te: hokomaha kēmehi ratonga hauora me te hauātanga ngā karāti penehīni waka tūmatanui - hei tauira, ngā pahi, ngā tereina me ngā waka kōpiko ngā kura me ngā kaiwhakarato mātauranga kōhungahunga ngā ratonga whare, tautoko whare hoki. E kore e taea te whakamahi i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mō te haere ki tāwāhi. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi atu whenua, me tono koe i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere Me tono koe ki Te Manatū Hauora mēnā he pūkete kano ārai mate tāhau nō tāwāhi hei tāpiri ake ki te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI o Aotearoa (CIR). Me oti tēnei mahi i mua i tō āheinga ki te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tiwhikete o tāwāhi (external link) E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā ngā take hauora, tērā tētahi tukanga whiwhi tohu whakawātea e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Me kōrero koe ki to tākuta, a, māna e tono mōu. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakawāteatanga me ngā tiwhikete (external link) --- Section Separator --- He waehere QR a Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, e taea ai te whakamahi hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Ko tēnei anake te momo hāpono e whakaaetia ana. E kore e whakaaetia te kāri kano ārai mate waiporoporo i whiwhi pea koe i muri i tō werohanga ki te kano ārai mate, tētahi reta whakaū kano ārai mate rānei, e whakaaetia ana hei hāpono o tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, ka āhei koe ki te uru atu ki ētahi kaupapa me ētahi wāhi e whakahaere kaupapa ana i raro i te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 (pūnaha rama toru). E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Ka taea e koe te tono Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mēnā: he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, ā, kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer i Aotearoa. kua werohia ki te kano ārai mate koe i tāwāhi otirā he kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia (external link) . kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i Aotearoa. he aweretanga hauora tāu. Kei tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate tō ingoa, te rā whānau me te waehere QR. Ka taea e koe te puri ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mōnehu tō tohu e ono marama i muri i te rā tuku. Ko te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record te huarahi tere e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. He wā poto noa iho te roa o te tono i tō tohu, ā, ka īmēratia atu ki a koe i roto i te 24 hāora. Rapu me pēhea te rēhita mō te My Covid Record Kia hono ake koe ki My Covid Record: Takiaru. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpako ‘My Vaccine Pass’ (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) ka tīpako i ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request pass’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tohu hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tohu ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Mēnā kāore koe e uru atu ki My Covid Record, e hiahia ana rānei ki te tono tohu mā tētahi atu, tēnā whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Mā te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate e uru ai koe ki te whānuitanga o ngā taiopenga, ngā wāhi me ngā taiao tūmatanui. Ko ēnei pea ko ngā: taiopenga ngā wāhi manaaki ngā pakihi pānga tata pēnei i ngā kaikuti makawe me ngā whare whakapakari tinana hākinakina ngā huihuinga whakapono. Ka matawai te pakihi/taiopenga/wāhi i te waehere QR i runga i tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mā te taupānga manatoko tohu. Mā tēnei taupānga i whakaū i tō tūnga kano ārai. Ka tonoa pea koe ki te whakaatu i tō tuakiri ki te whakaū mēnā nāu tonu te tohu. E kore te taupānga e puri i ō raraunga. E kore e whakaaturia ētahi atu mōhiohio i tua atu i tō ingoa me tō rā whānau. Rapu kōrero mō te taupānga Manatoko Tohu o Aotearoa E kore koe e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate mō ngā ratonga waiwai pēnei i te: hokomaha kēmehi ratonga hauora me te hauātanga ngā karāti penehīni waka tūmatanui - hei tauira, ngā pahi, ngā tereina me ngā waka kōpiko ngā kura me ngā kaiwhakarato mātauranga kōhungahunga ngā ratonga whare, tautoko whare hoki. E kore e taea te whakamahi i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mō te haere ki tāwāhi. Mēnā kei te haere koe ki tētahi atu whenua, me tono koe i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāereere Me tono koe ki Te Manatū Hauora mēnā he pūkete kano ārai mate tāhau nō tāwāhi hei tāpiri ake ki te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI o Aotearoa (CIR). Me oti tēnei mahi i mua i tō āheinga ki te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tiwhikete o tāwāhi (external link) E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā ngā take hauora, tērā tētahi tukanga whiwhi tohu whakawātea e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Me kōrero koe ki to tākuta, a, māna e tono mōu. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakawāteatanga me ngā tiwhikete (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated NZ Pass Verifier app (Taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa) --- Section Separator --- Ka taea te whakamahi i te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ki te hihira i te ūnga kano ārai mate o te tangata. Me whai ipurangi ki te tikiake i te taupānga i te tuatahi, me te matawai tuatahi hoki. Hei muri i tērā, ka taea e te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa te matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai me te kore hononga ki te ipurangi, engari me hono ki te ipurangi i ngā wā auau ki te whakarite e taea ai e ia te manatoko i ngā My Vaccine Passes e whaimana ana. Kāore e taea te whakamahi i te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa hei matawai i ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāreere. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero mō te My Vaccine Pass Tīkina ake te taupānga mā te App Store (external link) Tīkina ake te taupānga mā Google Play (external link) Ina tikiake koe i te taupānga, me te whakaae ki ngā ture whakamahi, me: E hiahiatia ana e te taupānga NZ Pass Verifier ngā whakaaetanga kāmera kia taea ai te matawai i ngā waehere QR My Vaccine Pass. Ka tono te taupānga i tēnei whakaaetanga ina tīmata koe ki te matawai. Hei matawai i tētahi kōkota, pāwhiri i te pātene ‘Scan’. Mā tēnei e whakaatu te mata matawai. Tohua tō waea ki te waehere QR i te kōkota kia uru ki te rohe heipū o tō mata. Ko te kōkota whaimana ka whakaatu i te ingoa me te rā whānau o te tangata (e whakaatu ana i runga i te Kōkota Kano Ārai) tae atu ki te tohu whakaae kākāriki me te kupu ‘valid’. Mēnā kāore te Kōkota Kano Ārai o Aotearoa e whaimana, mā te taupānga e kī ake he aha ai. Ākene pea nā te mea: kua mōnehu te kōkota, tērā rānei kāore e taea te manatoko i te waehere QR. Hei matawai i tētahi atu kōkota, patohia te pātene ‘Scan again’, me miri whakararo rānei i te mata otinga ki te whakakore. Kāore te matawai i te Kōkota e whāki atu mēnā kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua, kāore rānei - engari ka whāki mēnā kua tutuki ngā herenga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ma tēnei e pupuri te tūmataitinga o te hunga tē āhei atu ki te kano ārai mate nā ngā take hauora. Tērā pea kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate, he tohu whakawātea ā-hauora rānei tāna (he iti noa te hunga o Aotearoa ka whiwhi i tēnei). Ki te hiahia āwhina koe ki te taupānga, ka taea e koe te whakapā atu ki te rōpū motuhake i Te Manatū Hauora. Īmēra VerifierTechHelp@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea ki 0800 800 606 --- Section Separator --- Ka taea te whakamahi i te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ki te hihira i te ūnga kano ārai mate o te tangata. Me whai ipurangi ki te tikiake i te taupānga i te tuatahi, me te matawai tuatahi hoki. Hei muri i tērā, ka taea e te taupānga Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa te matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai me te kore hononga ki te ipurangi, engari me hono ki te ipurangi i ngā wā auau ki te whakarite e taea ai e ia te manatoko i ngā My Vaccine Passes e whaimana ana. Kāore e taea te whakamahi i te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa hei matawai i ngā Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Mate Hāreere. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Rapua he kōrero mō te My Vaccine Pass Tīkina ake te taupānga mā te App Store (external link) Tīkina ake te taupānga mā Google Play (external link) Ina tikiake koe i te taupānga, me te whakaae ki ngā ture whakamahi, me: E hiahiatia ana e te taupānga NZ Pass Verifier ngā whakaaetanga kāmera kia taea ai te matawai i ngā waehere QR My Vaccine Pass. Ka tono te taupānga i tēnei whakaaetanga ina tīmata koe ki te matawai. Hei matawai i tētahi kōkota, pāwhiri i te pātene ‘Scan’. Mā tēnei e whakaatu te mata matawai. Tohua tō waea ki te waehere QR i te kōkota kia uru ki te rohe heipū o tō mata. Ko te kōkota whaimana ka whakaatu i te ingoa me te rā whānau o te tangata (e whakaatu ana i runga i te Kōkota Kano Ārai) tae atu ki te tohu whakaae kākāriki me te kupu ‘valid’. Mēnā kāore te Kōkota Kano Ārai o Aotearoa e whaimana, mā te taupānga e kī ake he aha ai. Ākene pea nā te mea: kua mōnehu te kōkota, tērā rānei kāore e taea te manatoko i te waehere QR. Hei matawai i tētahi atu kōkota, patohia te pātene ‘Scan again’, me miri whakararo rānei i te mata otinga ki te whakakore. Kāore te matawai i te Kōkota e whāki atu mēnā kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua, kāore rānei - engari ka whāki mēnā kua tutuki ngā herenga whiwhi kano ārai mate. Ma tēnei e pupuri te tūmataitinga o te hunga tē āhei atu ki te kano ārai mate nā ngā take hauora. Tērā pea kua werohia te tangata ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate, he tohu whakawātea ā-hauora rānei tāna (he iti noa te hunga o Aotearoa ka whiwhi i tēnei). Ki te hiahia āwhina koe ki te taupānga, ka taea e koe te whakapā atu ki te rōpū motuhake i Te Manatū Hauora. Īmēra VerifierTechHelp@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea ki 0800 800 606 --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te haumaru me te whanaketanga | Safety and development Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19: te whanaketanga, whakaaetanga me te haumarutanga | COVID-19 vaccines: development, approval and safety --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Kāore i pēnei rawa te nui o te mahi tahi ā-ao i waenganui i ngā kaipūtaiao me ngā kāwanatanga i te whanaketanga kano ārai mate. Nā tēnei i tere ake ai te whanaketanga o te kano ārai mate, ngā whakamātautau haumanu me ngā whakaaetanga puta noa i te ao. I tere tonu te whanaketanga o ngā kano ārai mate engari kāore i whāia ngā pokatata i ngā tukanga matea, te whakamōrea rānei i te haumarutanga. I taea e ngā kairangahau te whakamahi i ō rātou mōhiotanga o ētahi atu huaketo korona me te whanaketanga kano ārai mate e ahu whakamua ai rātou. I taea hoki e ngā whakamātautau haumanu te kimi wawe i ngā kaitūao huhua nā te aronga nui me te māharahara o te ao whānui ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ko ētahi whakamātautau haumanu ka taea te mahi ngātahi, kaua i te huarahi raupapa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, ka taea wawe e ngā kaipūtaiao te whakatau mēnā i whaihua te kano ārai mate i te wā poto - otirā i ngā āhuatanga auau, ka hia marama, tau rānei te roa o tēnei mahi. Kua tū ngā whare whakanao nui, e taea ai te hanga wawe i ngā kano ārai mate, ā, me te rahi ake hoki, otirā kāore i taea i mua Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka arotake ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Ka tuku whakaaetanga anake a Medsafe mō te whakamahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, kia tau rā anō ō rātou whakaaro mō te ekenga ki ngā paerewa kaha mō te haumaru, te kaha ārai whakapokenga me te kounga. He tukanga ōrite tēnei i whakamahia ki te aromatawai i ētahi atu rongoā, pērā i te kano ārai mate rewharewha. Kāore he pokatata i whāia i te tukunga o tēnei whakaaetanga. Kua whakamahia angituhia e te hia miriona tāngata huri noa i te ao te kano ārai mate Pfizer. E aroturukuhia tonutia ana mō te haumarutanga Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te tikanga o tēnā, kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Puta noa i ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i rangahautia te kano ārai mate Pfizer i runga i te 44,000 kaiwhakauru. Ko te huarua o te hunga nei i whiwhi i te kano ārai mate, ko tētahi atu haurua i whiwhi placebo mātaitai. Nō ngā mātāwaka whānui, ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira me ngā tūmomo mate whānui anō hoki ngā kaiwhakauru. E toru ngā wāhanga whakamātautau i kuhu atu ai te kano ārai mate Pfizer: Ko ngā wāhanga 1 me te 2 i aromatawai i te haumaru me te immunogenicity (te urupare awhikiri i muri o ia werohanga) o ngā taumata werohanga rerekē o te kano ārai mate i tētahi taupori iti. Ko nga wāhanga 2 me te 3 i aromatawai i te haumaru me te kaha ārai o te kano ārai mate ki te KOWHEORI-19 ā-tohumate, i muri i ngā werohanga e rua o te taumata i tohua, e 21 ngā rā i waenga i ngā werohanga, i tētahi taupori nui ake. E māramai ai ki te kaha ārai mau roa me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate, e haurapatia ana ngā kaiwhakauru o ēnei whakamātautau haumanu mō te 2 tau atu anō i muri mai i tō rātou werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Kāore i pēnei rawa te nui o te mahi tahi ā-ao i waenganui i ngā kaipūtaiao me ngā kāwanatanga i te whanaketanga kano ārai mate. Nā tēnei i tere ake ai te whanaketanga o te kano ārai mate, ngā whakamātautau haumanu me ngā whakaaetanga puta noa i te ao. I tere tonu te whanaketanga o ngā kano ārai mate engari kāore i whāia ngā pokatata i ngā tukanga matea, te whakamōrea rānei i te haumarutanga. I taea e ngā kairangahau te whakamahi i ō rātou mōhiotanga o ētahi atu huaketo korona me te whanaketanga kano ārai mate e ahu whakamua ai rātou. I taea hoki e ngā whakamātautau haumanu te kimi wawe i ngā kaitūao huhua nā te aronga nui me te māharahara o te ao whānui ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ko ētahi whakamātautau haumanu ka taea te mahi ngātahi, kaua i te huarahi raupapa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, ka taea wawe e ngā kaipūtaiao te whakatau mēnā i whaihua te kano ārai mate i te wā poto - otirā i ngā āhuatanga auau, ka hia marama, tau rānei te roa o tēnei mahi. Kua tū ngā whare whakanao nui, e taea ai te hanga wawe i ngā kano ārai mate, ā, me te rahi ake hoki, otirā kāore i taea i mua Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka arotake ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Ka tuku whakaaetanga anake a Medsafe mō te whakamahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, kia tau rā anō ō rātou whakaaro mō te ekenga ki ngā paerewa kaha mō te haumaru, te kaha ārai whakapokenga me te kounga. He tukanga ōrite tēnei i whakamahia ki te aromatawai i ētahi atu rongoā, pērā i te kano ārai mate rewharewha. Kāore he pokatata i whāia i te tukunga o tēnei whakaaetanga. Kua whakamahia angituhia e te hia miriona tāngata huri noa i te ao te kano ārai mate Pfizer. E aroturukuhia tonutia ana mō te haumarutanga Ko te kitenga o ngā whakamātautau haumanu, ka whai hua te kano ārai mate puta noa i ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira, ngā mātāwaka me ngā iwi ahakoa ngā tumomo mate mauroa. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Ko te tikanga o tēnā, kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Puta noa i ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i rangahautia te kano ārai mate Pfizer i runga i te 44,000 kaiwhakauru. Ko te huarua o te hunga nei i whiwhi i te kano ārai mate, ko tētahi atu haurua i whiwhi placebo mātaitai. Nō ngā mātāwaka whānui, ngā taipakekehanga, ngā ira me ngā tūmomo mate whānui anō hoki ngā kaiwhakauru. E toru ngā wāhanga whakamātautau i kuhu atu ai te kano ārai mate Pfizer: Ko ngā wāhanga 1 me te 2 i aromatawai i te haumaru me te immunogenicity (te urupare awhikiri i muri o ia werohanga) o ngā taumata werohanga rerekē o te kano ārai mate i tētahi taupori iti. Ko nga wāhanga 2 me te 3 i aromatawai i te haumaru me te kaha ārai o te kano ārai mate ki te KOWHEORI-19 ā-tohumate, i muri i ngā werohanga e rua o te taumata i tohua, e 21 ngā rā i waenga i ngā werohanga, i tētahi taupori nui ake. E māramai ai ki te kaha ārai mau roa me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate, e haurapatia ana ngā kaiwhakauru o ēnei whakamātautau haumanu mō te 2 tau atu anō i muri mai i tō rātou werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te haumaru me te whanaketanga | Safety and development Pēhea te mahi o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 | How the COVID-19 vaccine works --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. I konei ka kitea e koe ngā kōrero nui mō te mahi o kano ārai mate. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer he kano ārai mate mRNA Kei roto ko te waehere ā-ira mō tētahi wāhanga nui o te huaketo SARS-CoV-2 (KOWHEORI-19) e kīia nei ko te 'pūmua koikoi'. Ko nga pūmua koikoi ngā tara iti i runga i te mata o te wheori. Kia whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate, ka pānuitia e tō tinana te waehere ā-ira, ā, ka tango kape o te pūmua koikoi. Ka kitea e tō pūnaha awhikiri ēnei pūmua koikoi, ā, ka ako ki te āhukahuka, me te whawhai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ka mōhio ia me pēhea te whakaeke i te huaketo hei ārai i te horapatanga ki tō tinana. Kātahi ka wāwāhitia te waehere ā-ira mai i te kano ārai mate, ka tere, ka māmā hoki te tangohia e tō tinana. Kāore ngā kano ārai mate mRNA e puri i te huaketo e tuku ana i te KOWHEORI-19, tētahi atu huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei. Kāore he painga, he tauwhitiwhiti ranei ki ō DNA, ki ō ira ranei. e kore e uru ngā kano ārai mate mRNA ki te puku o te pūtau, kei reira e mau ana ō tātau DNA. I whanaketia ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mā roto i ngā mahi ngātahitanga ā-ao nui. Kua rangahau, kua mahi hoki ngā kairangahau i ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mō ngā tau maha. Kei roto i tēnei ko ngā rangahau o ngā kano ārai mate rewharewha, Zika, rabies me te cytomegalovirus (CMV). Kua rangahaua hoki e ngā kaipūtaiao ngā pokenga mate korona i mua pēnei i te SARS me te MERS. Nō te tautuhitanga o ngā kaipūtaiao i te mate korona e puta ai te KOWHEORI-19, i tere tā rātou urutau i ngā hangarau mō te KOWHEORI-19. Ahakoa he hangarau āhua hou tēnei, i whāia tonutia ngā tikanga arowhai haumaru me ngā waehere. Kei roto hoki ko ngā whakamātautau haumanu ā-ao hei āwhina ki te whakaatu i te kaha ārai pokenga me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate.E whakamahia ana te kano ārai mate Pfizer puta noa i te ao, ā, e haere tonu ana, ngā mahi aroturuki tata mō tōna whaihuatanga me te haumarutanga. --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Ina whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, e tiaki ana koe i a koe anō, me te whakaiti i te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. I konei ka kitea e koe ngā kōrero nui mō te mahi o kano ārai mate. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer he kano ārai mate mRNA Kei roto ko te waehere ā-ira mō tētahi wāhanga nui o te huaketo SARS-CoV-2 (KOWHEORI-19) e kīia nei ko te 'pūmua koikoi'. Ko nga pūmua koikoi ngā tara iti i runga i te mata o te wheori. Kia whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate, ka pānuitia e tō tinana te waehere ā-ira, ā, ka tango kape o te pūmua koikoi. Ka kitea e tō pūnaha awhikiri ēnei pūmua koikoi, ā, ka ako ki te āhukahuka, me te whawhai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ka mōhio ia me pēhea te whakaeke i te huaketo hei ārai i te horapatanga ki tō tinana. Kātahi ka wāwāhitia te waehere ā-ira mai i te kano ārai mate, ka tere, ka māmā hoki te tangohia e tō tinana. Kāore ngā kano ārai mate mRNA e puri i te huaketo e tuku ana i te KOWHEORI-19, tētahi atu huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei. Kāore he painga, he tauwhitiwhiti ranei ki ō DNA, ki ō ira ranei. e kore e uru ngā kano ārai mate mRNA ki te puku o te pūtau, kei reira e mau ana ō tātau DNA. I whanaketia ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mā roto i ngā mahi ngātahitanga ā-ao nui. Kua rangahau, kua mahi hoki ngā kairangahau i ngā kano ārai mate mRNA mō ngā tau maha. Kei roto i tēnei ko ngā rangahau o ngā kano ārai mate rewharewha, Zika, rabies me te cytomegalovirus (CMV). Kua rangahaua hoki e ngā kaipūtaiao ngā pokenga mate korona i mua pēnei i te SARS me te MERS. Nō te tautuhitanga o ngā kaipūtaiao i te mate korona e puta ai te KOWHEORI-19, i tere tā rātou urutau i ngā hangarau mō te KOWHEORI-19. Ahakoa he hangarau āhua hou tēnei, i whāia tonutia ngā tikanga arowhai haumaru me ngā waehere. Kei roto hoki ko ngā whakamātautau haumanu ā-ao hei āwhina ki te whakaatu i te kaha ārai pokenga me te haumarutanga o te kano ārai mate.E whakamahia ana te kano ārai mate Pfizer puta noa i te ao, ā, e haere tonu ana, ngā mahi aroturuki tata mō tōna whaihuatanga me te haumarutanga. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te haumaru me te whanaketanga | Safety and development Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono me te kaupare i ngā tāwaretanga | How to find trustworthy information and avoid scams --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) He nui ngā mōhiohio kei te ipurangi me ngā pae pāpori mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Ka kitea e koe ngā mōhiohio horopū, i takea i runga i ngā mahi pūtaiao hoki, i ēnei wāhi: Ko Te Manatū Hauora te kaiārahi o te pūnaha hauora, hauātanga hoki o Aotearoa, ā, nōna te kawenga whānui mō te whakahaeretanga me te whanaketanga o taua pūnaha. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) He rōpū whakahaere ā-motu a IMAC e noho ana ki te School of Population Health i Te Whare Wānanga o Tāmaki Makaurau. E whakarato ana i ngā mōhiohio motuhake, pono hoki i poua iho ki ngā rangahau pūtaiao o te ao me Aotearoa mō ngā mate ka kauparetia e te kano ārai mate, me ngā hua me ngā mōreareatanga o te tuku awhikiri. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) He umanga te WHO nā Te Rūnanga Whakakotahi i ngā Iwi o te Ao, ā, nōna te kawenga mō te hauora tūmatanui ā-ao. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - WHO (external link) Tērā ētahi āhuatanga matua me mōhio rawa koe mō te kano ārai mate e pā ana ki ngā tāwaretanga: E kore rawa koe e tonoa kia utu mō te kano ārai mate, te uru rānei ki te whakapūmau i tō tūranga tūtira. Ko ngā mōhiohio ōkawa mō te kano ārai mate ka ahu mai i ētahi kaiwhakarato pono o ngā kōrero hauora, pēnei i Te Manatū Hauora, Unite against Covid-19, tō poari hauora ā-rohe (DHB). E kore tētahi kaimahi hauora e toro atu ki a koe i tō kāinga ki te tuku kano ārai mate, māna, i whakaritea ki a koe i mua. E kore koe e tonoa mō ō mōhiohio whaiaro mā te pātuhi, īmēra rānei. Ina kite koe, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ, ā, kaua e whakautu ki te karere. Ina whiwhi īmēra, waea, SMS rānei e tono ana i a koe mō ngā taipitopito ā-tahua e pā ana ki te kano ārai mate, he tāwaretanga tērā. Me wawe te ripoata ki a CERT NZ Ina kite koe i ētahi kōrero teka mō te kano ārai mate, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ (external link) Waihoki, ka taea e koe te waea ki a rātou i te 0800 237 869 . Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tāwaretanga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- He nui ngā mōhiohio kei te ipurangi me ngā pae pāpori mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Ka kitea e koe ngā mōhiohio horopū, i takea i runga i ngā mahi pūtaiao hoki, i ēnei wāhi: Ko Te Manatū Hauora te kaiārahi o te pūnaha hauora, hauātanga hoki o Aotearoa, ā, nōna te kawenga whānui mō te whakahaeretanga me te whanaketanga o taua pūnaha. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) He rōpū whakahaere ā-motu a IMAC e noho ana ki te School of Population Health i Te Whare Wānanga o Tāmaki Makaurau. E whakarato ana i ngā mōhiohio motuhake, pono hoki i poua iho ki ngā rangahau pūtaiao o te ao me Aotearoa mō ngā mate ka kauparetia e te kano ārai mate, me ngā hua me ngā mōreareatanga o te tuku awhikiri. The Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) He umanga te WHO nā Te Rūnanga Whakakotahi i ngā Iwi o te Ao, ā, nōna te kawenga mō te hauora tūmatanui ā-ao. Ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - WHO (external link) Tērā ētahi āhuatanga matua me mōhio rawa koe mō te kano ārai mate e pā ana ki ngā tāwaretanga: E kore rawa koe e tonoa kia utu mō te kano ārai mate, te uru rānei ki te whakapūmau i tō tūranga tūtira. Ko ngā mōhiohio ōkawa mō te kano ārai mate ka ahu mai i ētahi kaiwhakarato pono o ngā kōrero hauora, pēnei i Te Manatū Hauora, Unite against Covid-19, tō poari hauora ā-rohe (DHB). E kore tētahi kaimahi hauora e toro atu ki a koe i tō kāinga ki te tuku kano ārai mate, māna, i whakaritea ki a koe i mua. E kore koe e tonoa mō ō mōhiohio whaiaro mā te pātuhi, īmēra rānei. Ina kite koe, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ, ā, kaua e whakautu ki te karere. Ina whiwhi īmēra, waea, SMS rānei e tono ana i a koe mō ngā taipitopito ā-tahua e pā ana ki te kano ārai mate, he tāwaretanga tērā. Me wawe te ripoata ki a CERT NZ Ina kite koe i ētahi kōrero teka mō te kano ārai mate, ripoatahia ki a CERT NZ (external link) Waihoki, ka taea e koe te waea ki a rātou i te 0800 237 869 . Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā tāwaretanga KOWHEORI-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te haumaru me te whanaketanga | Safety and development Ngā pānga kino o ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 | Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i te 1-2 rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te werohanga tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka pā kinotia taupuatia pea tō āhei ki te hautū waka, te whakahaere pūrere rānei i ngā pānga kino. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te werohanga tuarua. Ngā pānga kino tauhou, onge hoki - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e manawarau ana tō noho, ka taea e koe te: whakamau papanga mātai, māku hoki, tētahi pēke tio rānei ki te wāhi wero mō te wā iti me whakatā, me kaha te inu wai me kai paracetamol, ibuprofen rānei. Mēnā he āwangawanga āu, e māuiui ana rānei i muri mai i tō werohanga, kōrero ki tō tākuta ā-whānau, tētahi atu mātanga hauora rānei, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā e māharahara ana koe mō tō oranga, waea ki 111. Whakamōhio atu kua whiwhi koe i tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai tika i a koe. He wā anō ka pā ngā pāwera kino engari he tino onge. Mēnā i pā tētahi tauhohenga pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki a koe i tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrero ki tō kaituku kano i tō taenga atu ki tō toronga tuku kano ārai mate. Mēnā ka pā tētahi tauhohenga i te wā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ka tau atu tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te tiaki i a koe. Ko te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) he pātengi raraunga o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Ka aroturuki a CARM i tēnei mōhiohio ki te tautuhi i ngā take hei āwhina i te whakamahinga haumaru me te tūtohu rongoā. Ina hiahia koe, ka taea e koe te whāki i ō pānga kino. Mā te whāki i ō pānga taha ka whai wāhi koe ki ngā raraunga e kohia ana i te ao, ā, me te āwhina ki te tautuhi i ngā tauira i Aotearoa me ngā tūpono take haumaru. Whākina ō pānga kino ki te CARM (external link) Ngā pānga kino i whākina i Aotearoa (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i te 1-2 rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te werohanga tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka pā kinotia taupuatia pea tō āhei ki te hautū waka, te whakahaere pūrere rānei i ngā pānga kino. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te werohanga tuarua. Ngā pānga kino tauhou, onge hoki - Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mēnā e manawarau ana tō noho, ka taea e koe te: whakamau papanga mātai, māku hoki, tētahi pēke tio rānei ki te wāhi wero mō te wā iti me whakatā, me kaha te inu wai me kai paracetamol, ibuprofen rānei. Mēnā he āwangawanga āu, e māuiui ana rānei i muri mai i tō werohanga, kōrero ki tō tākuta ā-whānau, tētahi atu mātanga hauora rānei, waea atu rānei ki Healthline i 0800 358 5453 . Mēnā e māharahara ana koe mō tō oranga, waea ki 111. Whakamōhio atu kua whiwhi koe i tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kia pai ai tā rātou aromatawai tika i a koe. He wā anō ka pā ngā pāwera kino engari he tino onge. Mēnā i pā tētahi tauhohenga pāwera kino, wawe rānei ki a koe i tētahi kano ārai mate, werohanga rānei i mua, kōrero ki tō kaituku kano i tō taenga atu ki tō toronga tuku kano ārai mate. Mēnā ka pā tētahi tauhohenga i te wā ka whiwhi koe i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, ka tau atu tētahi kaimahi hauora ki te tiaki i a koe. Ko te Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) he pātengi raraunga o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Ka aroturuki a CARM i tēnei mōhiohio ki te tautuhi i ngā take hei āwhina i te whakamahinga haumaru me te tūtohu rongoā. Ina hiahia koe, ka taea e koe te whāki i ō pānga kino. Mā te whāki i ō pānga taha ka whai wāhi koe ki ngā raraunga e kohia ana i te ao, ā, me te āwhina ki te tautuhi i ngā tauira i Aotearoa me ngā tūpono take haumaru. Whākina ō pānga kino ki te CARM (external link) Ngā pānga kino i whākina i Aotearoa (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Ngā kōrero taketake mō te kano ārai mate | Vaccine basics --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene. Ko wai e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? Ko te kano ārai mate a Pfizer anake te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia i Aotearoa. Kua riro i a mātou te 10 miriona werohanga - ka nui tēnei mō te 5 miriona tāngata, kia whiwhi i ngā werohanga e 2 e tika ana kia āraitia. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer: he kano ārai mate karere RNA (mRNA) kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto kāore koe e pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 kāore e pā kinotia tō DNA kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Me whiwhi koe i tō werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate i te 42 rā, neke atu rānei (6 wiki) i muri mai i te werohanga tuatahi. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i muri i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapu kōrero mō ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate Ka aromatawaitia ngā tono o ngā rongoā hou katoa e te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa e Medsafe. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā kano ārai mate. Kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te whakamahinga o tētahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, me whakapono ia ka: ea katoa ngā hihiratanga haumaru a Aotearoa whai i ngā paerewa ā-ao mō te haumarutanga, te whaihuatanga me te kounga. He tino whaihua te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā ka whiwhi te tangata i ngā werohanga e rua. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i pehea te whanaketanga me te whakaaetanga o te kano ārai mate Kia whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, kāore koe i te tiaki noa iho i a koe. E whai wāhi ana koe ki te whakaititanga o te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. He wawe rawa i tēnei wā ki te whai mōhio mēnā ka taea e koe te tuku i te huaketo i muri mai o te werohanga ārai mate. Hei āwhina ki te ārai i a koutou ko tō whānau me ētahi atu, me āwhina tonu koe ki te ārai i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19 i muri mai i te werohanga kano ārai mate. Ki mahara ki te: Āta horoi i ō ringa Me maremare, matihe hoki ki tō tuke. Me mau kōpare i runga i ngā ikiiki tūmatanui Whai haere tonu i ō tapuwae Whakakāhia te rapunga hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer Noho ki te kāinga ka waea ki Healthline ( 0800 358 5453 (external link) ) mēnā kei te māuiui koe He nui ngā mōhiohio tuihono, pae pāpori hoki mō te kano ārai mate. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono mō ngā kano ārai mate E rapu ana mātou i ētahi atu kaituku kano ārai mate hei tautoko i te whakaputanga o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā he mātanga hauora kua tāoki, kāore rānei i te mahi i tēnei wā i te ahumahi hauora, ā, e hiahia ana koe ki te tū hei kaitūao, haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora ki te rēhita i tō hiahia. Rēhitatia tō hiahia ki te tū hei kaituku kano ārai mate (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Kāore he aha o tō tūnga kōkota, kirirarau rānei. E kore e whakamahia ngā mōhiohio i kohia mō ngā take manene. Ko wai e āhei ana ki te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19? Ko te kano ārai mate a Pfizer anake te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia i Aotearoa. Kua riro i a mātou te 10 miriona werohanga - ka nui tēnei mō te 5 miriona tāngata, kia whiwhi i ngā werohanga e 2 e tika ana kia āraitia. Ka mahi te kano ārai mate mā te whakaako i tō pūnaha awhikiri ki te aro atu, ki te ārai atu hoki i te huaketo. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer: he kano ārai mate karere RNA (mRNA) kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto kāore koe e pāngia ki te KOWHEORI-19 kāore e pā kinotia tō DNA kāore he hua kararehe i roto. Me whiwhi koe i tō werohanga tuarua o te kano ārai mate i te 42 rā, neke atu rānei (6 wiki) i muri mai i te werohanga tuatahi. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i tō whiwhinga i te kano ārai mate Rapu i ngā āhuatanga ka tatū i muri i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate Rapu kōrero mō ngā pānga kino o te kano ārai mate Ka aromatawaitia ngā tono o ngā rongoā hou katoa e te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa e Medsafe. Ka uru ki tēnei ngā kano ārai mate. Kia whakaaetia e Medsafe te whakamahinga o tētahi kano ārai mate i Aotearoa, me whakapono ia ka: ea katoa ngā hihiratanga haumaru a Aotearoa whai i ngā paerewa ā-ao mō te haumarutanga, te whaihuatanga me te kounga. He tino whaihua te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 mēnā ka whiwhi te tangata i ngā werohanga e rua. Kia whiwhi koe i ngā werohanga e rua, ka tino heke tō tūpono pānga ki te māuiui taumaha. E whakaatu ana ngā rangahau, tata ki te 95% o ngā tāngata kua whiwhi i ngā werohanga e rua o te kano ārai mate, ka āraitia mai i ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19. Rapu pēhea te mahi a te kano ārai mate Rapu i pehea te whanaketanga me te whakaaetanga o te kano ārai mate Kia whiwhi kano ārai mate koe, kāore koe i te tiaki noa iho i a koe. E whai wāhi ana koe ki te whakaititanga o te mōrearea tuku i te KOWHEORI-19 ki tō whānau, ō hoa me te hapori. He wawe rawa i tēnei wā ki te whai mōhio mēnā ka taea e koe te tuku i te huaketo i muri mai o te werohanga ārai mate. Hei āwhina ki te ārai i a koutou ko tō whānau me ētahi atu, me āwhina tonu koe ki te ārai i te horapatanga o te KOWHEORI-19 i muri mai i te werohanga kano ārai mate. Ki mahara ki te: Āta horoi i ō ringa Me maremare, matihe hoki ki tō tuke. Me mau kōpare i runga i ngā ikiiki tūmatanui Whai haere tonu i ō tapuwae Whakakāhia te rapunga hono iarere i te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer Noho ki te kāinga ka waea ki Healthline ( 0800 358 5453 (external link) ) mēnā kei te māuiui koe He nui ngā mōhiohio tuihono, pae pāpori hoki mō te kano ārai mate. Ka toremi pea te tangata, ā, he uaua ki te rapu i ngā kōrero pono. Me whakarite koe i tō whiwhinga mōhiohio mai i ngā puna e whakaponotia ana, ā, kaua e toha i ngā mōhiohio kia mōhio rawa koe he pono. Me pēhea te rapu i ngā mōhiohio pono mō ngā kano ārai mate E rapu ana mātou i ētahi atu kaituku kano ārai mate hei tautoko i te whakaputanga o te kano ārai mate. Mēnā he mātanga hauora kua tāoki, kāore rānei i te mahi i tēnei wā i te ahumahi hauora, ā, e hiahia ana koe ki te tū hei kaitūao, haere ki te paetukutuku a Te Manatū Hauora ki te rēhita i tō hiahia. Rēhitatia tō hiahia ki te tū hei kaituku kano ārai mate (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Ngā pānui me ngā rauemi kano ārai mate | Vaccine posters and resources --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) Te tāpui i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 306 KB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination Kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19: Rapua ngā meka [PDF, 270 KB] COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts Tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 — Ngā mea katoa me mōhio koe [PDF, 733 KB] Your COVID-19 vaccination: everything you need to know Te whiwhi i tō rongoā ārai mate [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect I muri i tō wero ārai mate [PDF, 77 KB] After your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 he kore utu, he mahi tūao, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa kei tua i te 12 tau te pakeke. Haere ki Book My Vaccine waea atu rānei ki te COVID Vaccination Healthline ki te whakarite tāpui. 0800 28 29 26 Book My Vaccine (external link) --- Section Separator --- Te tāpui i te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 [PDF, 306 KB] Booking your COVID-19 vaccination Kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19: Rapua ngā meka [PDF, 270 KB] COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts Tō kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 — Ngā mea katoa me mōhio koe [PDF, 733 KB] Your COVID-19 vaccination: everything you need to know Te whiwhi i tō rongoā ārai mate [PDF, 256 KB] Getting your COVID-19 vaccine: what to expect I muri i tō wero ārai mate [PDF, 77 KB] After your vaccination --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese አማርኛ | Amharic عربي | Arabic Bislama 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori دری | Dari فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese ကညီ | Karen Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Bahasa Malaysia | Malay Vagahau Niue | Niuean پښتو | Pashto ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Solomon Aelan Pijin | Solomon Islands Pijin Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Kiswahili | Swahili Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai ትግርኛ | Tigrinya Tok Pisin Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home News and data Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. What you need to know Vaccination rates around NZ Locations of interest If you have been at a location of interest Media conferences Traffic lights map Latest case numbers --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. A reassessment of the risk posed by the drum and bass festival in Tauranga’s Wharepai Domain on 3 January has been downgraded. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. --- Section Separator --- Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Report a breach online
Home News and data Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Data and statistics available COVID-19 cases Vaccine data NZ COVID Tracer app data COVID-19 data portal COVID-19 modelling reports Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 10 January 2022 at 1:15 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 95% Eligible population with 1 dose 95% Eligible population with 1 dose 92% Eligible population with 2 doses 92% Eligible population with 2 doses 3,980,957 First doses administered 3,980,957 First doses administered 3,874,700 Second doses administered 3,874,700 Second doses administered 31,931 Third doses administered 31,931 Third doses administered 500,821 Booster doses administered 500,821 Booster doses administered --- Section Separator --- Find out how many second doses your DHB needs to get to 90% fully vaccinated. Vaccinations to 90% by DHB Check our vaccinations map to find out how many people in your DHB or small area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Last updated 10 January 2022 at 1:15 pm The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19, clusters, locations of interest and testing in New Zealand. This includes: Current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics Source of COVID-19 cases Testing for COVID-19 35 Cases in hospital 35 Cases in hospital 27 New community cases 27 New community cases 33 New cases at the border 33 New cases at the border 11,169 Total community cases in current outbreak 11,169 Total community cases in current outbreak --- Section Separator --- Last updated 10 January 2022 at 1:15 pm The Ministry of Health collects information on how much people are using the NZ COVID Tracer app. More data is available in your app dashboard. 3,531,613 App registrations 3,531,613 App registrations 1,957,979 Poster scans in the last 24 hours 1,957,979 Poster scans in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Last updated 10 January 2022 The Ministry of Health collects information on how many My Vaccine Passes have been issued. 4,710,766 My Vaccine Passes downloaded total 4,710,766 My Vaccine Passes downloaded total --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | stats.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If the data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you’re a researcher. COVID-19 data resources | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home News and data Map of COVID-19 vaccination rates in New Zealand Find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- This map shows the vaccination rates for district health boards (DHBs) and small areas of New Zealand. Enter your address to see the proportion of people who have received their first or second dose in your area, compared with the national average. --- Section Separator --- Dose Ethnicity Map areas A Statistical Area 2 is similar to a suburb. National average is the percentage of eligible people in New Zealand who have received their first or second dose. There are 2,156 Statistical Area 2s and 20 DHBs with data that determine the ranking in the map and table. Areas with no land are not included. Data source: Ministry of Health (external link) Map key under 70% 70 to 79% 80 to 89% 90% and over Map key under 70% 70 to 79% 80 to 89% 90% and over A Statistical Area 2 is similar to a suburb. National average is the percentage of eligible people in New Zealand who have received their first or second dose. There are 2,156 Statistical Area 2s and 20 DHBs with data that determine the ranking in the map and table. Areas with no land are not included. Data source: Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Data in this table is as at 11:59pm 21 December 2021. Note that the New Zealand doses to 90% may not be a sum of the rows above. This is because any DHBs that exceed 90% will contribute additional doses to the national total, offsetting the doses required in other DHBs. Partially/fully vaccinated % are the number of partially/fully vaccinated people divided by the eligible population. Partially/fully vaccinated to 90% are the number of people required to reach 90% of the eligible population. Percentages are rounded to the nearest whole number, so may show 90% with a small number of doses still remaining. Source: Ministry of Health COVID-19: vaccine data | health.govt.nz (external link)
Displaying 1-10 of 777 updates 10 Jan 2022 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Jan 2022 A reassessment of the risk posed by the drum and bass festival in Tauranga’s Wharepai Domain on 3 January has been downgraded. 07 Jan 2022 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 Jan 2022 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Jan 2022 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Jan 2022 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 Jan 2022 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Jan 2022 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 30 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health.
Give yourselves a pat on the back, New Zealand. We’ve now reached 90% fully vaccinated across the country — that means 3,788,151 New Zealanders have rolled up their sleeves to protect themselves, their whānau, friends and communities, We knew yesterday we’d reached the milestone, and now that the official count is through, we can formally recognise the hard work of everyone who has played their part, and who are continuing to do their bit. Their commitment means all New Zealanders are safer and more protected, and can get back to doing the things they love, whether it’s travelling to catch up with friends and family for Christmas, heading out to restaurants, pubs and cafes, or enjoying the many festivals and outdoor events planned for the summer. This tremendous result could not have happened without the efforts of the many thousands of people across Aotearoa who’ve worked tirelessly since the vaccination programme was launched early this year to support the goal of getting every eligible New Zealander vaccinated. This includes our more than 15,000 vaccinators, as well as our DHB health teams, Māori and Pacific health providers, community NGOs, Government ministries and agencies, logistics, delivery and distribution centre staff, and the countless others who’ve been such an instrumental part of the programme’s success to date. This result also comes hot on the heels of the three DHBs in the Auckland metropolitan area having now hit the 90% fully vaccinated milestone. That means seven DHBs in total have now nailed this mark, with a number of others about to reach it in the coming days. And the work continues. By 11.59pm last night, 3,789,662 of the 4,209,057 eligible New Zealanders aged 12 and over were fully vaccinated, with 3,969,267 (or 94%) partially vaccinated. We know we still have more to do, and we will be continuing the mahi to further raise vaccination rates in those areas where it’s most needed — as well as among our Māori and Pacific communities to bring them closer to that 90% fully vaccinated mark. That’s why I encourage everyone in Aotearoa who is eligible for the vaccine to go ahead and get their shot, whether it be their first, second or a booster dose. There are hundreds of places open until Christmas and over the summer holidays where you can get your vaccination, so it’s never been easier. There’s also a ton of really good information available from official, trusted sources, which is a good place to start for anyone who still has questions. This includes the key websites: www.covid19.govt.nz/vaccines (external link) www.health.govt.nz (external link) www.karawhiua.nz (external link) www.mpp.govt.nz (external link) your health provider. Healthline is another great place to have your questions answered – call 0800 28 29 26 . We want all of our communities protected against COVID-19, and no-one who’s eligible to be left behind.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 4:20pm. Speaker: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 2pm. Speakers: Minister for the COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Ministry of Health Chief Science Advisor Ian Town Dr Danny Delore, a paediatrician (children’s doctor) Watch the media conference. --- Section Separator --- Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The case is a recent international arrival who returned a positive result on day nine of their self-isolation period. They had previously returned three negative tests for COVID-19 while completing 7 days of managed isolation at a facility in Auckland. The case arrived on a flight from the United Kingdom via Doha on 16 December and is fully vaccinated with a mRNA vaccine. No other COVID-19 infections have been identified from the individual’s flight. Investigations are underway as to the source of the infection. The result of their day nine test was received on 27 December and they were immediately transferred to an Auckland MIQ facility on the same day. At this point whole genome sequencing was carried out and confirmed the Omicron variant. To date, a number of close contacts have been identified and those tested have returned negative test result for COVID-19. They are currently isolating. Public Health are in the process of identifying and contacting all other known close contacts, and ensuring they also isolate and get tested. We have been doing everything we can to prepare for Omicron and to keep it out of the community since the variant was first identified. This has included undertaking whole genome sequencing on every PCR sample taken from COVID-19 cases detected in international arrivals. --- Section Separator --- The individual was in Auckland CBD on 26th December and 27th December. Specific locations of interest where there was a risk of COVID-19 transmission to unknown members of the public: 26 December 2021: Impala from 11pm to 3am Commercial Bay Precinct from 2:30pm to 4:30pm and 6:30pm to 8pm Sunny town from 2:30pm to 4:30pm Partridge jewellers, Queen Street from 3:30pm to 6pm Ahi Restaurant from 6:30pm to 8pm Soul Bar from 9:30pm to 3am on 27 December No exposure events have been identified from the individual’s movements between MIQ and the accommodation they stayed in while completing their isolation period. Any further locations of interest will be added to the Ministry of Health’s website if necessary. We are encouraging everyone in Auckland to check the Locations of Interest website regularly and follow the advice provided. Learn more what to you need to do if you were at a location of interest | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- We are taking this situation seriously and taking a precautionary approach. However, we do not believe that the individual was highly infectious at the time of the above exposure events. If you have symptoms of COVID-19 please get a test immediately and if you were at any of these venues contact Healthline on 0800 358 5453. You do not need to be tested if you do not have symptoms and were not at a location of interest at the times stated. We ask that testing resources provided at Community Testing Centres, GPs, and Urgent Care are preserved for those who need it. As always, it is important to stay at home if you are sick, get tested if you have symptoms of COVID-19 and isolate until you return a negative test. --- Section Separator --- Our vaccine rollout remains our key defence against all variants of COVID-19, including Omicron. With 90% of the eligible population now double-dosed, and the booster programme underway, New Zealanders are well protected. We want vaccinations to continue increasing and ask everyone who is eligible to get vaccinated. This is also a timely reminder for people over the age of 18 to get their booster shot if it has been six months since their last vaccine dose. From 5 January, people only need to wait four months since their last dose and will be able to access a booster through walk in clinics. For a full list of vaccination centres see the Healthpoint website. Any further information on the case and next steps will be made available tomorrow.
The case arrived in Auckland from Germany via Dubai on December 10 and flew to an MIQ in Christchurch on an aircraft chartered for international arrivals. After testing positive, they were moved from the Crowne Plaza Managed Isolation facility to the Sudima Christchurch Airport dual-use Managed Isolation and Quarantine facility. The case is fully vaccinated with two doses of the Pfizer vaccine. Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield said that while the arrival of a new variant is concerning, New Zealand is well placed to manage Omicron cases. We knew it would be a case of when, not if, Omicron arrived on New Zealand’s shores — our health and MIQ teams around the country have been planning for it. With a strong border, we are prepared to detect Omicron cases in international arrivals and manage them appropriately. Whole genome sequencing on every COVID-19 case detected at the border remains a critical element in our defence against COVID-19. We know how rapidly Omicron has spread globally, so it’s been important to make sure every border case detected undergoes urgent genome sequencing. We have been doing everything we can to prepare for Omicron and to keep it out of the community since the variant was first identified. Our vaccine rollout remains our key defence against all variants of COVID-19, including Omicron. With 90% of the eligible population now double-dosed, and the booster programme underway, New Zealanders are well protected. We want vaccinations to continue increasing and ask everyone who is eligible to get vaccinated. Contact tracing is underway to identify passengers who were on the international and domestic flights with the case who has the Omicron variant. As a precautionary measure, all passengers on the flights with the case are required to complete all ten days at a managed isolation facility — rather than spending the last three days of their isolation period in self-isolation. Joint Head of MIQ, Chris Bunny, says the managed isolation facility is well set up to care for these people and protect the community. Managed Isolation and Quarantine takes the safety of workers and their families, whānau and broader communities very seriously. All Managed Isolation and Quarantine facilities follow strict infection prevention controls developed by the Ministry of Health to manage the risks of spreading COVID-19. The Ministry of Health’s advice is to continue with our rigorous MIQ IPC protocols. At every MIQ facility returnees must remain physically distant from each other, and from staff members, at all times. At a quarantine facility, returnees cannot leave their room freely. They must stay in their room unless they have a medical appointment, are on their specified fresh air or smoking time or there is an emergency, such as a fire or an earthquake. Staff wear full PPE when escorting returnees to and from their rooms. Returnees are required to wear PPE in line with Ministry of Health guidelines while outside their room. Health staff conducting health checks wear full PPE (face shield, gown and gloves) and do not enter quarantine rooms. The Sudima Christchurch Airport dual-use Managed Isolation and Quarantine facility has a very strict Infection Prevention and Control measures in place developed by the Ministry of Health to manage the risks of spreading COVID-19 — as do all MIQ facilities. The staff at these facilities are experienced in managing and caring for positive cases. Any further information on the case and next steps will be made available tomorrow.
Parents and caregivers will have the opportunity to protect their children aged 5 to 11 against COVID-19 with the child version of the Pfizer vaccine. A key focus of the Government is to keep everyone in New Zealand safe from the COVID-19 pandemic. That’s why Cabinet has agreed with the advice from the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Group, off the back of Medsafe approval that confirms both the safety and efficacy of the paediatric vaccine, to use of the vaccine to protect 5 to 11-year-olds. This will happen from 17 January 2022. There are 476,000 children aged between 5 and 11 who will become eligible to get their first dose from this date, and their second dose at least 8 weeks later. As we have seen to date, the virus can be unpredictable. While COVID-19 generally has milder effects in children, with symptoms similar to a cold, some children become severely ill and require hospitalisation. In the most recent outbreak, 24% of cases have been aged 11 or under. Like we have seen with adults, if your child is infected with COVID-19 they may transmit the virus to other people. Immunising 5 to 11-year-olds helps protect whānau members whose health makes them more vulnerable to COVID-19. The Ministry of Health is working with iwi, district health boards (DHBs), hauora providers, and community organisations to roll out the Pfizer vaccine to children in ways that suit whānau and communities. While there are no plans for a school-based immunisation programme, schools are being considered as community vaccination sites. This will add capacity to the vaccination network and make it even easier for families to get vaccinated. The government is strongly encouraging parents to have their children vaccinated against COVID-19, but I want to be clear that this is a choice for parents. The Government has no intention of making COVID-19 vaccinations mandatory for anyone in this age group. Parents are encouraged to make an informed choice and have their children vaccinated to protect them and those they love. --- Section Separator --- Children need 2 doses of the vaccine to be fully protected. It is recommended that these are given at least 8 weeks apart, however the interval can be safely shortened to a minimum of 21 days if needed, for example if your child is starting significant immunosuppression treatment. The vaccine is free. A parent, caregiver or legal guardian will need to accompany their child to their appointment(s) as the responsible adult and provide consent for them to be vaccinated. The vaccine has been through clinical trials in children of the same age group. In general, the side effects that were reported were mild, did not last long, and were similar to side effects from other routine vaccines. Myocarditis and pericarditis are very rare but serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. In the clinical trial no cases were seen in children aged 5 to 11 however it is important to be aware of the symptoms for all ages who are vaccinated. The Covid-19 Vaccination Technical Advisory Group (CV-TAG) and Medsafe will continue to monitor safety data, including for these rare side effects, from the rollout of programmes to 5 to 11-year-old children in other countries. Parents or caregivers can go to a walk-in clinic with their tamariki or use BookMyVaccine.nz to get immunised with their usual health provider, hauora, or general practice (make sure you select the appropriate age range). If you want to book for more than 1 child or you are unable to book online, you can call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 , 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The disability team is available Monday to Friday, from 8am to 8pm. To book an immunisation appointment for your tamariki call 0800 28 29 26 and push 2; Free text: 8988 or email: accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz
75 new standard inpatient beds 355 existing inpatient beds converted to isolation or negative-pressure environments 23 new Intensive Care (ICU) and High Dependency (HDU) beds, and 8 temporary bed conversions to ICU $100m in fast-tracked health capital projects confirmed, supported by $544 million operational funding The Government will upgrade 24 local hospitals next year to support planned and routine care, to ensure non-COVID patients are safe when COVID patients are being treated. This includes projects announced last week to add ICU capacity to some hospitals. With high vaccination rates and better treatments and prevention methods, we are shifting to better support planned and routine care while also safely caring for COVID-19 patients. Treating COVID patients can be disruptive to other treatment as additional precautions are taken for infection prevention and control. Today’s announcements are about minimising that disruption. We asked DHB regions to prioritise projects that would strengthen local hospitals to provide planned and routine care in the age of COVID-19, and could start as soon as possible in 2022, with some projects completed as early as March. Today I can confirm we will fund 36 different local hospital upgrades throughout the country, and the operational costs to support them, at a total cost of $644 million from the COVID-19 Response and Recovery Fund. This includes the ICU and other upgrades at North Shore, Tauranga and Christchurch that were announced last week. The previous National Government left a legacy of massive underinvestment in health infrastructure, including ICU. For two whole years National didn’t invest a single cent in health infrastructure, despite a growing and ageing population. By contrast, the Labour Government has already put $6 billion into health infrastructure. Now in 2022, we will also add 75 new standard inpatient beds in hospitals. Additionally, 355 existing inpatient beds will be converted into isolation or negative pressure environments, and a number of hospitals will have ventilation upgrades. These upgrades will allow routine and planned care to continue and patients with mild to moderate COVID-19 to be treated, while helping to protect all patients, visitors and staff from the virus. The upgrades include 23 new ICU/HDU beds, as well as 8 temporary bed conversions to ICU. New Zealand’s success in responding to the pandemic means there has never been more than 11 COVID-19 patients in ICU at any one time. The vast majority of people who get COVID won’t need to go to hospital, let alone need an ICU bed. Increasing ICU/HDU capacity is part of the wider plan to rebuild our health system.
The Ministry of Health’s medicine regulatory arm Medsafe, today approved a new COVID-19 medicine Ronapreve that can both prevent and treat COVID-19 though it is not a substitute for vaccination and its effectiveness against the latest variant of concern is yet to be demonstrated. --- Section Separator --- Ronapreve is a monoclonal antibody drug that mimics the body’s natural defences for fighting disease. The clinical advice is that it is a significant advance, because it reduces the severity of COVID-19 by keeping more cases out of hospital and shortens the duration of symptoms and infectious period which in turn reduces the risk of patients passing the virus on to other people, says Medsafe Group Manager Chris James. --- Section Separator --- Ronapreve is approved for the treatment of COVID-19 for people who are badly affected by COVID-19 and who are at increased risk of progressing to severe COVID-19 disease. The medicine is also approved for preventing COVID-19 for people who have been exposed to the virus and have a medical condition that makes them unlikely to be protected by vaccination. This group includes people with compromised immune systems such as individuals with cancer, transplant recipients and those with immunodeficiency disorders.  These individuals are often susceptible to infections and respond poorly to vaccination. Ronapreve is not approved for use in children. --- Section Separator --- Chris James says today’s announcement is a significant advance, in providing an additional tool to our health professionals that allows them to both saving lives and taking pressure off our hospitals, allowing them to focus on treating people with other conditions. Ronapreve is known to be effective against the Delta variant and research is now focusing on its effectiveness against the Omicron variant. Medsafe will continue to evaluate that information when it becomes available. In late October this year, the Government announced that Pharmac, the national medicine-buying agency, had already secured access to enough doses of Ronapreve to be able to treat 5,300 people and expects to be able to buy more next year. Ronapreve, along with 4 other drugs including molnupiravir, have been selected for fast tracked approval to help protect against the COVID-19 pandemic, protecting people and hospital services against its worst impacts. Ronapreve is the first new drug to get Medsafe’s approval.  Dexamethasone, an existing steroid treatment, has also been approved for treatment of COVID-19 as it helps limit the body’s over-reaction to COVID-19 seen in severe cases of infection. These medicines are important tools to have in our toolbox for addressing COVID-19.  Other actions continue to be just as important as they have ever been. Our focus remains on getting as many people as possible vaccinated, including booster shots, and practical measures like wearing facemasks, social distancing and scanning into any locations visited.
The interval between the second dose and the booster shot reduced from 6 months to 4 months. Over 82% of vaccinated New Zealanders eligible for a booster by the end of February 2022. Eligible border and health workers required to get booster dose. Pre-departure test requirement to enter NZ reduced from 72 hours to 48 hours before travel. Phased border re-opening pushed out to the end of February 2022. Temporary change to MIQ — length of stay increased to 10 days for all travellers, with no self-isolation component. Everyone on an international flight with a positive case to be treated as a close contact. All countries removed from very high risk country list. Cabinet confirms decision to roll out paediatric doses of Pfizer for 5 to 11-year-olds. Rollout to start from 17 January before school returns in 2022. Cabinet confirms use of traffic light system to manage outbreak — in the event of Omicron outbreaks areas will move into the red traffic light setting. --- Section Separator --- Cabinet has agreed a suite of precautionary measures to keep Omicron out of the community for as long as possible. All of the evidence so far points to Omicron being the most transmissible COVID-19 variant yet, and public health advice says that soon, every case that comes into MIQ will be Omicron. But experts still don’t know how severe it is. So while it is sweeping the globe at a bewildering speed and appears to be the dominant variant, how sick it makes people and the impact it has on health systems is not yet fully understood. With over 70 countries around the world reporting Omicron cases and its high transmissibility, our plan is to get as prepared as we can by speeding up boosters and strengthening our border to keep Omicron out of the community for as long as possible. We start our response to Omicron with a number of advantages on our side. We have over 90% and rising of the population fully vaccinated, we still have our border protections and MIQ in place, school has finished for the year and we are heading into summer when we are outdoors more. But we need to do more. Parts of the world are going back into lockdown and experiencing major disruption, and with these extra steps we aim to keep Omicron at bay to ensure New Zealanders get the break they deserve and businesses can remain open. --- Section Separator --- The first step in our plan is accelerating the booster rollout, following advice from the Director-General of Health. The advice from the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Group is that shortening the period between the second and booster doses of the Pfizer vaccine is an appropriate and pragmatic step and is in line with what other countries are doing. Data is emerging that a booster dose with Pfizer provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses is likely to hold a good degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a third dose is likely to offer great protection against transmission of COVID-19 and reducing the chance of more serious infections. The shorter timeframe will start in January 2022 and we will continue to follow health advice if it recommends the gap in doses can and should reduce further. Over 82% of vaccinated New Zealanders will be eligible for a booster by the end of February 2022. We know that the most likely place for Omicron to enter the community is at the border, so we want all border and eligible health workers to have the extra protection the booster vaccine provides to protect them and their families. The border continues to be our first line of defence. More than half of border workers eligible for a booster at 6 months have already had it — which is a great response — but we need to get the numbers up quickly. Cabinet has therefore agreed in principle that where workers are required to be vaccinated, that this mandate will also extend to boosters. Initially this will be for those workers most likely to come into contact with Omicron — border and health workers — who will be required to have their booster by the end of January 2022, or not later 6 months after their second dose for those who were only recently vaccinated, and then to all others who are under a vaccination mandate by 1 March 2022. --- Section Separator --- We are fortunate we still have MIQ in place. Without it, Omicron would already be in the community and Christmas plans would be under threat. To further strengthen the border, we are shortening the pre-departure test requirement from 72 hours to 48 hours before travel in order to assist in picking up more people with the virus before they get on a plane. And we have sought advice on implementing a requirement for all non-New Zealand citizens entering to New Zealand to have had a booster dose before flying. We are also making a temporary change to MIQ that increases the length of stay from 7 to 10 days. Currently returnees do their final 3 days of isolation at home. Bringing those final 3 days back into MIQ reduces the risk of the virus entering the community. --- Section Separator --- To slow the rapid spread we have seen overseas, we are pushing out the start of non-MIQ travel until the end of February 2022. There is no doubt this is disappointing and will upset many holiday plans, but it is important to set these changes out clearly today so they can have time to consider those plans. COVID-19 keeps throwing new curve balls and we have to respond in a way that continues to protect lives and livelihoods without putting in place restrictions and lockdowns unless absolutely necessary. Waiting till the end of February 2022 will increase New Zealand’s overall protection and slow Omicron’s eventual spread. --- Section Separator --- With these changes, we are buying New Zealand as much time as we can, as scientists here and overseas race to get a clearer picture of Omicron. In moving to the traffic light system, we signalled that we would be adjusting to more of a reactive stance when it came to protective measures and would apply them when case numbers grew and the health system came under pressure. Omicron has changed that. When it does arrive, we expect that it will spread fast, and that is what we are seeing in other places. To slow that spread, we may use the red traffic light settings earlier on. That will give us the best chance to avoid returning to more restrictive Alert Level settings. It is not our intention to move to lockdowns unless absolutely necessary in the event of a widespread outbreak where our health system comes under considerable strain — and even then the strong preference is for the lockdown to be highly targeted. Chris Hipkins said faced with alternative courses of action, and looking at overseas jurisdictions, Cabinet is strongly of the view that this plan is the best approach for New Zealand. By the end of February 2022 when we revisit the phased border re-opening, around 3 million more Kiwis will be eligible for the booster shots and the rollout to 5 to 11-year-olds will be well underway.
The Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine for this age group is an adapted version of the vaccine used for people aged 12 and older. The provisional approval is for two doses of the paediatric Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine, given at least 21 days apart. The Medsafe team has worked tirelessly this year to ensure that COVID-19 vaccine applications are prioritised and urgently reviewed, while still maintaining the same scrutiny that all medicine applications undergo before they can be approved. Medsafe will only approve a vaccine or medicine for use in New Zealand once it is satisfied that it has met high standards for quality, safety and efficacy. The Ministry of Health’s National Immunisation Programme Director, Astrid Koornneef, says that work is well underway to prepare for the potential rollout of the paediatric Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine in New Zealand. Medsafe approval is the first step in the process, and the COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group is now providing advice to the Ministry of Health to inform Cabinet’s decision whether to use the vaccine in New Zealand. If Cabinet agrees to use the vaccine in New Zealand, we want to have systems in place to roll out the vaccine safely and efficiently, at the earliest opportunity. This means completing the necessary training and working with the community to roll out the vaccine, including through whānau-based approaches. If approved by Cabinet, the rollout of the paediatric Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine is expected to start in New Zealand no later than the end of January 2022.
The COVID-19 Vaccine Independent Safety Monitoring Board was informed of three reports of people who had died with a potential myocarditis in the period following vaccination. The Board met to review the available information related to these cases to determine whether the Pfizer (Comirnaty) COVID-19 vaccine was a factor. The Board extends its deepest sympathies to the family, whānau and friends of the people involved. Due to the seriousness of these reports, the Board met on 8 December 2021 to discuss the details of these three cases in relation to a possible link to vaccination. The role of the Board is to consider the likelihood of the link of the vaccine to any adverse event. The Board recognises that, in relation to deaths reported to the coroner, it is for the coroner to determine the cause and circumstances of death. The death a of 13-year-old child, which has been reported to the coroner, was discussed at length, however further information is required before a determination on the role of the vaccine can be made. A further statement will be made when that information is available. Two of the cases are considered further below. Having reviewed the information, the Board considers that the myocarditis which was implicated in the death of a man in his 60s, was unlikely related to vaccination. The time from vaccination to the onset of symptoms and clinical factors point to other causes and is not consistent with a causal link. The Board considered in detail the death of a 26-year-old man, who died within 2 weeks of his first dose of the Pfizer vaccine. This case has been reported to the coroner, who is investigating. Preliminary information from the post-mortem examination has identified myocarditis as the probable cause of death. The Board has considered the potential causes of myocarditis in this individual, including the Pfizer vaccine. The Board noted: There were no reported symptoms prior to the vaccine and the symptoms of myocarditis developed in the days immediately following his first vaccine dose. The individual had not sought medical advice or treatment for his symptoms. Some COVID-19 vaccines, including the Pfizer vaccine, increase the risk of myocarditis; Medsafe issued an Alert communication for myocarditis as a rare adverse reaction of the Pfizer vaccine on 21 July 2021. COVID-19 infection increases the risk of myocarditis substantially more than vaccination with the Pfizer vaccine. There are many possible causes of myocarditis, the most common being viral infection; an average of 95 people (SAFE study) are discharged from hospital with a principal diagnosis of myocarditis in New Zealand every year. Myocarditis is a treatable condition, if identified, and outcomes are better the earlier that treatment is started. With the current available information, the Board has considered that the myocarditis was probably due to vaccination in this individual. The Board considers that the circumstances of these cases do not impact or change the known information on myocarditis, and the benefits of vaccination with the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 continue to greatly outweigh the risk of such rare side effects. The Board has recommended actions to be taken by the COVID-19 Vaccine and Immunisation Programme to continue to highlight myocarditis as a very rare side effect of the Pfizer vaccine. The Board noted that COVID-19 infection can itself be a cause of myocarditis as well as other serious illnesses and it remains safer to be vaccinated than to be infected with the virus. The Board wishes to remind healthcare professionals and consumers to be alert to the symptoms of myocarditis that may include chest pain, tightness or discomfort, shortness of breath or abnormal heartbeat (and/or accompanied by fever). The Board highlighted that discussion at the time of vaccination should include information on common expected side effects and rare side effects, along with when and how to seek medical advice.
It has been downgraded to asking all those who attended the festival to monitor for symptoms and to get tested if any symptoms develop, no matter how mild. Any festival attendee, without any symptoms, no longer needs to get tested and isolate at home until they receive a negative result. The reassessment follows a review of the risk, particularly given the festival was held in accordance with the rules for outdoor events under the COVID Protection Framework including the use of vaccine passes for entry; the fact that no other cases have since been linked to the festival and the initial test results of the 11 close contacts of the Wellington case are all negative. The Ministry appreciates and thanks anyone attending the festival who has already been tested. Festival attendees who have received an orange COVID-19 tracer app notification or who have been given advice by public health should continue to follow the advice provided.
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,980,957 first doses (95%) 3,874,700 second doses (92%) 31,931 third primary doses 500,821 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people): 502,246 first doses (88%) 467,034 second doses (81%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 270,331 first doses (94%) 260,277 second doses (91%) --- Section Separator --- 35 cases in hospital: 1 in Northland 6 in North Shore 12 in Auckland 13 in Middlemore 3 in Tauranga --- Section Separator --- 27 new community cases: 16 in Auckland 5 in Waikato 2 in Bay of Plenty 1 in Lakes 2 in Hawke's Bay 1 in Wellington 33 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
There were 18,527 total vaccine doses administered yesterday, including 2,434 first doses and 6,849 second doses. To date, 94% of eligible people in New Zealand have had their first dose and 89% are double-dosed. There are 80 new community cases and 2 new cases identified at the border. 51 in Auckland 21 in Waikato 7 in Bay of Plenty 1 in Lakes. There are 62 cases in hospital. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) People who are not fully vaccinated and asymptomatic and require surveillance COVID-19 testing for travel need to get a supervised rapid antigen test from a pharmacy, within 72 hours of travel. Rapid antigen tests Anyone with any COVID-19 symptoms is asked to get a PCR test at a community testing centre or a doctor and stay at home until a negative result is returned. Where to get tested Several members of a flight crew have been identified as close contacts of a Omicron variant case in Australia. These crew members arrived in New Zealand last night and are in a MIQ facility, as per standard international air crew arrival procedure.
Counties Manukau DHB have now reached 90% fully vaccinated, bringing all three Auckland Metro DHBs to 90% or more fully vaccinated with Auckland DHB sitting on 95% and Waitematā DHB on 92%. There are 6 DHBs in total who are now at 90% fully vaccinated. The following DHBs are all close, on 89% fully vaccinated with numbers required to get to 90% in brackets: Midcentral (1,755 doses to go) Wairarapa (395 to go) Nelson Marlborough (1,905 to go) South Canterbury (750 to go) We are 7,417 doses away from being nationally 90% fully vaccinated, which we expect to achieve in the next day or two. There are 74 new community cases and 2 new cases identified at the border. 56 in Auckland 9 in Waikato 7 in Bay of Plenty 1 in Lakes 1 in Canterbury. There are 61 cases in hospital. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) It’s important testing advice is followed correctly to help ensure test results continue to be returned in a timely way. People who are not fully vaccinated require a COVID-19 test for some travel including to leave Auckland. These people need to get a supervised rapid antigen test from a pharmacy, within 72 hours of travel. This testing is only for people over the age of 12 years and 3 months, who are not fully vaccinated and do not have any COVID-19 symptoms. The location and hours of pharmacies offering rapid antigen tests is available from Healthpoint. We ask people getting a rapid antigen test to be patient and kind to pharmacy staff while the system is fine-tuned. Remember, if you have COVID-19 symptoms then you should call Healthline for advice about getting a PCR test. Where to get a supervised rapid antigen test | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Earlier this month 70,000 people with overseas vaccinations or incorrect data were emailed a temporary exemption letter from the requirement to produce a My Vaccine Pass. The majority of these people have now received their My Vaccine Pass and the Ministry of Health are issuing a further temporary exemption letter today to some people whose applications are still being processed. About 5,000 people are getting a week-long exemption while their requests for My Vaccine Passes are cleared, while 20,000 people vaccinated overseas will get an extension to 17 January 2022 while their vaccinations are verified. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health can confirm that a patient with COVID-19 has passed away at Tauranga Hospital. The family has requested that no further details be released and, out of respect for those wishes, we will be making no further comment at this time. Our thoughts are with the patient’s whānau and friends at this deeply sad time.
Congratulations New Zealand – we’ve reached the milestone of 90% fully vaccinated against COVID-19. As of 11.59pm yesterday, 3,789,662 of the 4,209,057 eligible New Zealanders aged 12 and over were fully vaccinated, with 3,969,267 (or 94%) partially vaccinated. Today Whanganui has become the latest DHB to reach 90% partially vaccinated. Seven DHBs in total have also now reached the 90% fully vaccinated mark, with a number of others expected to reach this milestone in the coming days. There are 91 new community cases and 4 new cases identified at the border. 55 in Auckland 7 in Waikato 10 in Bay of Plenty 1 in Lakes 16 in Taranaki. There are 58 cases in hospital. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) A wastewater sample collected from Gisborne on 14 December detected the COVID-19 virus. This is the sixth positive wastewater result for Tairāwhiti in recent weeks, indicating there may be unknown cases in the community. Anyone who has symptoms – no matter how mild – is asked to get tested, even if they are vaccinated - and stay home until they return a negative test result. Find a testing site near you | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- From today the Ministry of Health is moving to a new 24-hour reporting period for new cases of COVID-19. Previously, the reporting timeframe for COVID-19 cases was the previous 24-hour period between 9am and 9am. This has now changed to midnight to midnight. This timing better aligns with DHB reporting and reduces the time spent reconciling case numbers between the Ministry and DHBs. Today’s reported cases have been collated over a shortened 15-hour period (from 9am Wednesday 15 December to 11.59pm Wednesday 15 December) rather than the usual 24-hour timeframe as we transition to the new reporting period.  The impact on case numbers is expected to be minimal.
Both Capital & Coast and Auckland DHBs are close to reaching 90% fully vaccinated for their eligible Māori populations. For Auckland DHB, just 1,339 of the eligible population need a second dose to reach the 90% milestone, while in the Capital & Coast DHB region, an additional 1,480 vaccinations are needed to reach the mark. Pacific people across 19 of our 20 DHBs are 90% partially vaccinated or higher – with Whanganui due to reach this milestone at any moment with just 57 doses to go. Pacific communities in eight of our DHBs are also now fully vaccinated. Four of our smaller DHBs are also fast closing in on 90% fully vaccinated – with Wairarapa DHB needing just 157 more doses, South Canterbury 516 doses, MidCentral 778 doses, and Nelson-Marlborough 1,183 doses to hit the milestone. There are 76 new community cases and 3 new cases identified at the border. 47 in Auckland 15 in Waikato 10 in Bay of Plenty 1 in Lakes 3 in Taranaki. There are 51 cases in hospital. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Yesterday we reported New Zealand’s first case of the Omicron variant in a recent international arrival who tested positive in a day 0/1 test at a Christchurch managed isolation facility. All of the passengers on the same ​international and domestic flights as the case are being treated as close contacts, and all are isolating in a managed isolation facility. Two other passengers on the international flight have tested positive for COVID-19 and one further passenger’s positive result is being investigated as a historical infection. These three people have been moved to a managed quarantine facility. Whole genome sequencing has identified one of these infections as the Delta variant. Whole genome sequencing for the other two is due later today. All other passengers have returned negative day 0/1 and day 3 tests. Urgent whole genome sequencing is being carried out on all positive test results in recent returnees to determine if they have the Omicron variant. While the arrival of a new variant is concerning, New Zealand is well placed to manage Omicron cases with isolation and testing requirements for all new arrivals, robust infection and prevention control and PPE measures at airports and MIQ facilities, and frequent surveillance testing of staff who have any contact with recent returnees.
Total vaccinations administered: 3,961,764 first doses (94%) 3,791,509 second doses (90%) 24,355 third primary doses 205,979 booster doses 49 cases in hospital: 8 in North Shore 24 in Auckland 12 in Middlemore 2 in Waikato 3 in Tauranga 39 new cases in the community 10 new cases identified at the border Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
The eight millionth dose of the COVID-19 vaccine has now been administered in New Zealand. This includes first doses, second doses, boosters as well as third doses intended for those that are immune compromised. This significant milestone includes both the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines. MidCentral and Hutt Valley have now reached 90 percent first doses for Māori, becoming the fourth and fifth DHB areas to achieve this milestone. Whole genome sequencing has now detected five further cases of Omicron in international arrivals, taking New Zealand’s total to 13 cases with the variant. Four of these cases remain in managed isolation. One has now recovered and been released. Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,963,513 first doses (94%) 3,798,165 second doses (90%) 24,549 third primary doses 212,905 booster doses 56 cases in hospital 10 in North Shore 26 in Auckland 15 in Middlemore 2 in Waikato 3 in Tauranga 55 new community cases 8 new cases identified at the border Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,975,039 first doses (94%) 3,854,768 second doses (92%) 29,184 third primary doses 327,091 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people): 500,488 first doses (88%) 461,593 second doses (81%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 271,374 first doses (95%) 259,250 second doses (90%) --- Section Separator --- Cases in hospital: 43 8 in North Shore 12 in Auckland 19 in Middlemore 2 in Tauranga 1 in Lakes 1 in Waikato --- Section Separator --- Number of new community cases: 105 over two days Number of new cases identified at the border: 33 over two days Location of new community cases over two days: 71 in Auckland 7 in Waikato 22 in Bay of Plenty 4 in Lakes 1 in Hawke’s Bay 71 in Auckland 7 in Waikato 22 in Bay of Plenty 4 in Lakes 1 in Hawke’s Bay Number of community cases (total): 10,928 (in current community outbreak) Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,964,319 first doses (94%); 3,801,569 second doses (90%); 24,652 third primary doses; 215,914 booster doses Vaccines administered yesterday: 784 first doses; 3,360 second doses; 94 third primary doses and 2,988 booster doses. Māori (percentage of eligible people): 496,493 first doses (87%); 444,227 second doses (78%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 269,674 first doses (94%); 253,681 second doses (88%) Number of new community cases: 69 Number of new cases identified at the border: 2 Location of new community cases: Auckland (59), Waikato (7), Bay of Plenty (2), Taranaki (1). Number of community cases (total): 10,289  (in current community outbreak) Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,966,212 first doses (94%); 3,808,013 second doses (90%); 25,313 third primary doses; 227,559 booster doses Vaccines administered yesterday: 1,860 first doses; 6,273 second doses; 637 third primary doses and 11,558 booster doses. Māori (percentage of eligible people): 496,932 first doses (87%); 445,578 second doses (78%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 268,629 first doses (94%); 253,432 second doses (88%) Seven day rolling average of community cases: 67 Number of new community cases: 28 Number of new cases identified at the border: 5 Location of new community cases: Auckland (21), Bay of Plenty (5), Taranaki (2). Number of community cases (total): 10,320 (in current community outbreak) Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,967,995 first doses (94%); 3,815,424 second doses (91%); 26,178 third primary doses; 239,705 booster doses Vaccines administered yesterday: 1,727 doses; 7,221 second doses; 860 third primary doses and 11,995 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people): 497,845 first doses (87%); 448,591second doses (79%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 270,173 first doses (94%); second doses 255,010 (89%) Seven day rolling average of community cases: 59.7 Number of new community cases: 56 Number of new cases identified at the border: 4 Location of new community cases: Auckland (33), Waikato (6), Bay of Plenty (11), Lakes (4), Taranaki (1), Hutt Valley (1) Number of community cases (total): 10,375 (in current community outbreak) Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,969,641 first doses (95%); 3,822,918 second doses (91%); 26,971 third primary doses; 253,269 booster doses Vaccines administered yesterday: 1,578 first doses; 7,258 second doses; 807 third primary doses and 13,373 booster doses. Māori (percentage of eligible people): 498,442 first doses (87%); 450,999 second doses (79%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 270,488 first doses (94%); 255,815 second doses (89%) Seven day rolling average of community cases: 58.1 Number of new community cases: 56 Number of new cases identified at the border: 4 Location of new community cases: Auckland (42), Waikato (4), Bay of Plenty (6), Lakes (2), Tairāwhiti* (1), and Taranaki (1). Number of community cases (total): 10,432 (in current community outbreak) Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,971,055 first doses (95%) 3,830,209 second doses (91%) 27,613 third primary doses 265,497 booster doses 3,971,055 first doses (95%) 3,830,209 second doses (91%) 27,613 third primary doses 265,497 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people): 498,945 first doses (87%) 453,526 second doses (79%) 498,945 first doses (87%) 453,526 second doses (79%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 269,120 first doses (94%) 255,447 second doses (89%) 269,120 first doses (94%) 255,447 second doses (89%) --- Section Separator --- Number of new community cases: 62 Number of new cases identified at the border: 10 Location of new community cases: Auckland (37) Waikato (5) Bay of Plenty (14) Lakes (5) Canterbury (1) Auckland (37) Waikato (5) Bay of Plenty (14) Lakes (5) Canterbury (1) Number of community cases (current community outbreak total): 10,493 Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- No one wants to get COVID-19 (or any other illness) for Christmas, so we’re asking everyone to play their part to reduce the spread of the virus. Anyone with any symptoms that could be COVID-19, is asked to get a test, and stay at home until they receive a negative result and are feeling better. Testing locations nationwide can be found on the Healthpoint website. People who are out and about today are asked to wear a mask and maintain physical distance in crowded or poorly ventilated indoor spaces and scan in using the COVID-19 Tracer app. The vaccine remains our key defence against all variants of COVID-19, including Omicron. We continue to ask everyone who is eligible to get vaccinated, including people who are now eligible for a booster dose.
Eighty percent of Māori are now fully vaccinated against COVID-19. This follows 454,492 of eligible Māori now having received their second dose. Both Waikato and Hawkes Bay have now reached 90% fully vaccinated. In Waikato 320,537 eligible people have now had their second dose and in the Hawke’s Bay 130,771 are now double-dosed. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,971,765 first doses (94%) 3,834,830 second doses (91%) 27,948 third primary doses 273,640 booster doses. 3,971,765 first doses (94%) 3,834,830 second doses (91%) 27,948 third primary doses 273,640 booster doses. Māori (percentage of eligible people): 498,975 first doses (87%) 454,492 second doses (80%) 498,975 first doses (87%) 454,492 second doses (80%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 269,184 first doses (94%) 255,887 second doses (89%) 269,184 first doses (94%) 255,887 second doses (89%) --- Section Separator --- Cases in hospital: 47: 5 in North Shore 14 in Auckland 22 in Middlemore 2 in Waikato 4 in Tauranga 5 in North Shore 14 in Auckland 22 in Middlemore 2 in Waikato 4 in Tauranga --- Section Separator --- Number of new community cases: 126 over two days Number of new cases identified at the border: 10 over two days Number of new Omicron cases identified at the border: 7 new over two days, taking total to 45 Location of new community cases over two days: Auckland (88) Waikato (17) Bay of Plenty (6) Lakes (13) Taranaki (1) Northland (1) Auckland (88) Waikato (17) Bay of Plenty (6) Lakes (13) Taranaki (1) Northland (1) Number of community cases (current community outbreak total): 10,619
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,971,856 first doses (94%) 3,835,627 second doses (91%) 27,958 third primary doses 274,600 booster doses. 3,971,856 first doses (94%) 3,835,627 second doses (91%) 27,958 third primary doses 274,600 booster doses. Vaccines administered yesterday*: 96 first doses; 740 second doses 8 third primary doses and 903 booster doses. 96 first doses; 740 second doses 8 third primary doses and 903 booster doses. Māori (percentage of eligible people): 499,246 first doses (87%) 455,341 second doses (80%) 499,246 first doses (87%) 455,341 second doses (80%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 270,808 first doses (94%) 257,120 second doses (89%) 270,808 first doses (94%) 257,120 second doses (89%) * Lower vaccination numbers yesterday reflect Boxing Day falling on a Sunday so many centres were closed. --- Section Separator --- 41 in cases in hospital: 15 in Auckland 21 in Middlemore 5 in Tauranga 15 in Auckland 21 in Middlemore 5 in Tauranga --- Section Separator --- Number of new community cases: 34 Number of new cases identified at the border: 10 Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,972,045 first doses (94%) 3,837,202 second doses (91%) 28,011 third primary doses 276,949 booster doses 3,972,045 first doses (94%) 3,837,202 second doses (91%) 28,011 third primary doses 276,949 booster doses Vaccines administered yesterday: 199 first doses 1,559 second doses 46 third primary doses 2,345 booster doses 199 first doses 1,559 second doses 46 third primary doses 2,345 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people): 499,066 first doses (87%) 455,191 second doses (80%) 499,066 first doses (87%) 455,191 second doses (80%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 269,224 first doses (94%) 256,127 second doses (89%) 269,224 first doses (94%) 256,127 second doses (89%) --- Section Separator --- 54 cases in hospital: 19 in Auckland: 19 7 in North Shore 22 in Middlemore 3 in Tauranga 2 in Rotorua 1 in Waikato 19 in Auckland: 19 7 in North Shore 22 in Middlemore 3 in Tauranga 2 in Rotorua 1 in Waikato --- Section Separator --- Number of new community cases: 18 Number of new cases identified at the border: 16 Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,972,323 first doses (94%) 3,839,131 second doses (91%) 28,043 third primary doses 279,853 booster doses 3,972,323 first doses (94%) 3,839,131 second doses (91%) 28,043 third primary doses 279,853 booster doses Vaccines administered yesterday: 279 first doses 1,917 second doses 43 third primary doses 2,888 booster doses 279 first doses 1,917 second doses 43 third primary doses 2,888 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people): 499,157 first doses (87%) 455,867 second doses (80%) 499,157 first doses (87%) 455,867 second doses (80%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 269,266 first doses (94%) 256,300 second doses (89%) 269,266 first doses (94%) 256,300 second doses (89%) --- Section Separator --- 48 cases in hospital: 15 in Auckland 6 in North Shore: 21 in Middlemore 3 in Tauranga 2 in Rotorua 1 in Waikato --- Section Separator --- Number of new community cases: 46 Number of new cases identified at the border: 8 Location of new community cases: 3 in Northland 30 in Auckland 6 in Waikato 4 in Lakes 2 in Tairāwhiti 1 in Canterbury 3 in Northland 30 in Auckland 6 in Waikato 4 in Lakes 2 in Tairāwhiti 1 in Canterbury Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,975,175 first doses (94%) 3,855,391 second doses (92%) 29,198 third primary doses 329,318 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people): 500,530 first doses (88%) 461,770 second doses (81%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 271,383 first doses (95%) 259,317 second doses (90%) --- Section Separator --- 44 cases in hospital: 6 in North Shore 12 in Auckland 22 in Middlemore 3 in Tauranga 1 in Lakes --- Section Separator --- 27 new community cases: 12 in Auckland 7 in Waikato 7 in Bay of Plenty 1 in Lakes 24 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,974,357 first doses (94%) 3,850,822 second doses (91%) 28,890 third primary doses 312,821 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people): 500,204 first doses (88%) 460,296 second doses (81%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 271,232 first doses (95%) 258,713 second doses (90%) --- Section Separator --- 46 cases in hospital: 10 in North Shore 14 in Auckland 18 in Middlemore 2 in Tauranga 2 in Lakes --- Section Separator --- Number of new community cases: 49 Number of new cases identified at the border: 13 Location of new community cases: 22 in Auckland 3 in Waikato 19 in the Bay of Plenty 1 in the Hawke’s Bay 22 in Auckland 3 in Waikato 19 in the Bay of Plenty 1 in the Hawke’s Bay Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Today there are an additional six Omicron cases to report among arrivals at the border, taking to total to date to 78. Yesterday we confirmed New Zealand’s first border-related case of Omicron with community exposures. The case arrived on 16 December and as required under the previous regime for international arrivals, completed a full 10 days in isolation; 7 days in a managed isolation facility and 3 days in self-isolation. They were tested on day nine but did not wait for a negative test result before self-releasing. Under the previous regime, those leaving a managed isolation facility were able to complete their three days self-isolation at home or in other accommodation. The case completed their self-isolation on Waiheke Island, we understand they travelled by private car and ferry to the island. While on the ferry they did not leave their vehicle and travelled straight to their accommodation. All international arrivals are now required to complete their full 10 days of isolation in a managed isolation facility and must return a negative day nine test before they are released. From 7 January, all travellers to New Zealand will have to have a PCR test no more than 48 hours before flying, down from the current 72 hours. Contact tracing has identified a number of known close contacts, all of whom are being contacted and asked to isolate and test. This includes close contacts identified via case interviews and from locations of interest including Impala nightclub. Additionally, push notifications have been sent to any person who scanned into any LOI that the case visited. These notifications include public health advice on testing and isolation. All identified close contacts are being urgently contacted by contact tracers. Whole genome sequencing of the other omicron cases at the same managed isolation facility has shown the case is not linked to others who stayed at the same facility. At this stage, there is no evidence of in facility transmission. A further interview is underway with the case this morning to determine additional locations of interest. Testing is available on Waiheke today and additional mobile testing will be made available if required. Anyone who attended the Hidden Lakes Festival and is concerned should ring healthline for further advice. However, only a small number of contacts of this case attended the festival, all of whom had negative tests beforehand. The public health risk associated with this event has been assessed as low. At this stage, there are no known contacts or cases associated with Rhythm & Alps festival. As always, anyone who is symptomatic should stay at home get tested. Today we are reporting a second border-related case who has been in the community. The case is an Air New Zealand crew member who worked on a flight between Auckland and Sydney on 24 December. They were tested for COVID-19 in routine surveillance testing on 27 December. Whole genome sequencing has confirmed the Omicron variant and has also confirmed the case is linked to three other Omicron cases on the same flight. The case was immediately transferred to a MIQ facility. The case is fully vaccinated. Eight close contacts have been identified, seven of whom have returned negative test results. At this stage, there are no known locations of interest. We have been doing everything we can to prepare for Omicron and to keep it out of the community since the variant was first identified. This has included undertaking whole genome sequencing on every PCR sample taken from COVID-19 cases detected in international arrivals. Our vaccine rollout remains our key defence against all variants of COVID-19, including Omicron. With 90% of the eligible population now double-dosed, and the booster programme underway, New Zealanders are well protected. We want vaccinations to continue increasing and ask everyone who is eligible to get vaccinated. This is also a timely reminder for people over the age of 18 to get their booster shot if it has been six months since their last vaccine dose. From 5 January, people only need to wait four months since their last dose and will be able to access a booster through walk in clinics. For a full list of vaccination centres see the Healthpoint website. As always, it is important to stay at home if you are sick, get tested if you have symptoms of COVID-19 and isolate until you return a negative test. --- Section Separator --- Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,973,416 first doses (94%) 3,845,831 second doses (91%) 28,471 third primary doses 295,666 booster doses Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,975,528 first doses (94%) 3,856,703 second doses (92%) 29,226 third primary doses 333,820 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people): 500,643 first doses (88%) 462,192 second doses (81%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 271,432 first doses (95%) 259,464 second doses (91%) --- Section Separator --- 53 cases in hospital: 9 in North Shore 16 in Auckland 22 in Middlemore 5 in Tauranga 1 in Rotorua --- Section Separator --- 31 new community cases: 14 in  Auckland 1 in Waikato 12 in Bay of Plenty 4 in Lakes 29 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,975,922 first doses (94%) 3,858,117 second doses (92%) 29,250 third primary doses 339,172 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people): 500,775 first doses (88%) 462,658 second doses (81%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 271,497 first doses (95%) 259,634 second doses (91%) --- Section Separator --- 44 cases in hospital: 8 in North Shore 14 in Auckland 17 in Middlemore 4 in Tauranga 1 in Rotorua --- Section Separator --- 17 new community cases: 5 in Auckland 3 in Waikato 9 in the Bay of Plenty 23 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,977,174 first doses (94%) 3,862,780 second doses (92%) 29,881 third primary doses 380,408 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people): 501,269 first doses (88%) 464,070 second doses (81%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 271,769 first doses (95%) 260,261 second doses (91%) --- Section Separator --- 38 cases in hospital: 5 in North Shore 14 in Auckland 15 in Middlemore 4 in Tauranga --- Section Separator --- 19 new community cases: 6 in Auckland 5 in Waikato 5 in Bay of Plenty 1 in Northland 2 in Taranaki 43 new cases identified at the border Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Vaccines administered to date (percentage of eligible people): 3,978,510 first doses (95%) 3,866,935 second doses (92%) 30,780 third primary doses 423,710 booster doses Māori (percentage of eligible people): 501,343 first doses (88%) 464,541 second doses (81%) Pacific Peoples (percentage of eligible people): 270,050 first doses (94%) 259,340 second doses (90%) --- Section Separator --- 37 cases in hospital: 4 in North Shore 14 in Auckland 13 in Middlemore 5 in Tauranga 1 in Waikato --- Section Separator --- 35 new community cases: 18 in Auckland 1 in Waikato 13 in Bay of Plenty 3 in Lakes 24 new cases identified at the border. Update on today's COVID-19 cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
There are now a total of eight cases with the Omicron variant isolating in MIQ facilities, none have been in the community. Whole genome sequencing for two other passengers on the international flight with New Zealand’s first Omicron case has confirmed they have the Omicron variant of COVID-19. Two additional cases we are announcing today arrived on separate flights from Singapore. One case travelled on a flight from Singapore to Auckland on 13 December and the second case was on a flight from Singapore to Christchurch on 15 December. Of the eight Omicron cases, two are in a bubble but the other six cases are unrelated to each other suggesting no cross-contamination or cross-infection either in-flight or within MIQ facilities. Whole genome sequencing is being carried out on all new border cases of COVID-19 to rapidly identify any new cases of the Omicron variant. As a precautionary interim measure, all passengers on flights with Omicron cases are required to complete all ten days at a managed isolation facility – rather than spending the last three days of their isolation period in self-isolation. Health and MIQ teams around the country have been planning for Omicron cases at the border and will continue to manage all arrivals cautiously. We are well placed to manage Omicron cases with isolation and testing requirements for all new arrivals, robust infection and prevention control and PPE measures at airports and MIQ facilities, and frequent surveillance testing of staff who have any contact with recent international returnees.
Displaying 11-20 of 777 updates 30 Dec 2021 Watch the media conference with Minister Hipkins at 11am. 29 Dec 2021 Whole genome sequencing has detected a border-related case of Omicron who had briefly been active in the community. 29 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 26 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 23 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 22 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 21 Dec 2021 Cabinet has agreed a suite of precautionary measures to keep Omicron out of the community for as long as possible.
Displaying 21-30 of 777 updates 21 Dec 2021 Parents and caregivers will have the opportunity to protect their children aged 5 to 11 against COVID-19 with the child version of the Pfizer vaccine. 21 Dec 2021 The Ministry of Health’s medicine regulatory arm Medsafe, today approved a new COVID-19 medicine Ronapreve that can both prevent and treat COVID-19. 21 Dec 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 2pm. 21 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 Dec 2021 Read the following statement from the COVID-19 Vaccine Independent Safety Monitoring Board. 20 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 18 Dec 2021 Whole genome sequencing has now detected a further four cases of Omicron in recent international arrivals. 18 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 31-40 of 777 updates 16 Dec 2021 Whole genome sequencing has detected New Zealand’s first case of Omicron who tested positive in a day 0/1 test at a Christchurch managed isolation facility. 16 Dec 2021 The Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield will provide an update on the Omicron variant. 16 Dec 2021 Medsafe has granted provisional approval for the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine for children aged 5 to 11 years old. 16 Dec 2021 We’ve now reached 90% fully vaccinated across the country. 16 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 16 Dec 2021 The Government will upgrade 24 local hospitals next year to support planned and routine care. 15 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 14 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 13 Dec 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 13 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 41-50 of 777 updates 12 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Dec 2021 Watch background briefing with Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield about therapeutic treatments for COVID-19. 10 Dec 2021 The Transition Payment that is available for affected businesses to support their move to the COVID-19 Protection Framework has opened for applications. 09 Dec 2021 Rapid antigen testing will be available for free from community pharmacies for travellers until 31 January 2022. 09 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 Dec 2021 New Zealand has secured Pfizer's antiviral medicine to help treat COVID-19.
Displaying 51-60 of 777 updates 06 Dec 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 4pm. 06 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 04 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 Dec 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers at 1pm. 03 Dec 2021 Associate Minister of Health Dr Ayesha Verrall has congratulated testing teams right around New Zealand for reaching the 5 million tests milestone. 02 Dec 2021 Three positive COVID-19 cases have been confirmed in Taranaki today. 02 Dec 2021 The Ministry of Health will today email a temporary exemption from the requirement to produce a My Vaccine Pass to a small group of people. 02 Dec 2021 Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Dec 2021 Watch the media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 731-740 of 777 updates 25 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 24 Aug 2020 Auckland will stay at Alert Level 3 until 11:59pm on 30 August 2020. The rest of the country will remain at Alert Level 2. 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health.
Displaying 741-750 of 777 updates 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks.
Displaying 751-760 of 777 updates 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody.
Displaying 761-770 of 777 updates 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm.
Displaying 771-777 of 777 updates 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Home News and data Media conferences Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 media conference — 21 December 2021 COVID-19 media conference — 16 December 2021 COVID-19 media conference — 13 December 2021 COVID-19 media conference — 6 December 2021 COVID-19 media conference — 3 December 2021 --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health. A reassessment of the risk posed by the drum and bass festival in Tauranga’s Wharepai Domain on 3 January has been downgraded. Read the latest update on cases from the Ministry of Health.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 Information about COVID-19, including what it is, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Advice for people with underlying medical conditions and some older people who are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 What is COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current variants of concern are: Alpha — first found in the United Kingdom Beta — first found in South Africa Gamma — first found in Brazil Delta — first found in India Omicron — first found in South Africa. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: About the Delta variant (external link) COVID-19: About the Omicron variant (external link) COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) Omicron was first found in November 2021 and classed as a variant of concern by WHO. It has spread worldwide and is now present in more than 70 countries. Early evidence suggests it is more transmissible than previous variants of the virus, including Delta. But research is still underway and more data is needed to understand the extent of Omicron’s increased transmissibility. We expect more international data in the coming weeks. The possibility of new variants is why we continue to perform whole-genome sequencing on every case that enters New Zealand. Unlike travellers to many other countries, travellers to New Zealand must still have a series of COVID-19 tests and a period of isolation. These precautions reduce the chances of Omicron entering the community. Any potential impacts for New Zealand will be on this website. COVID-19: About the Omicron variant (external link) We are still learning about this new variant of the virus. Early reports suggest that, compared to Delta: Omicron is more transmissible Omicron may cause similar symptoms, but more data is still needed Omicron has similar hospitalisation rates, but more information is still needed to determine disease severity. To protect ourselves and our whānau from Omicron, we need to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits When you are out and about this summer, remember to wear a mask, scan in, and have My Vaccine Pass ready so that we can make summer unstoppable. Prepare for your summer break Cabinet has agreed a suite of precautionary measures to keep Omicron out of the community for as long as possible. All of the evidence so far points to Omicron being the most transmissible COVID-19 variant yet and public health advice says that soon, every case that comes into MIQ will be Omicron. Government's plan to minimise risk COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. Keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer app. The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 COVID-19 causes 2 major issues that cause harm when someone is infected — a viral attack on the body and in some cases an immune reaction. Studies for new treatments cover both issues and concentrate on 3 areas. Antiviral drugs limiting the ability of the virus to thrive in the body. Medicines that calm the immune system over-reaction prompted in some patients. Antibody treatments that help the body fight the virus. The Ministry of Health has updates on pharmaceutical treatments for COVID-19. COVID-19 Science Updates | health.govt.nz (external link) Pharmac is funding appropriate COVID-19 treatments for New Zealanders. The agency decides which medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand. Pharmac has secured treatments for COVID-19, including: Tocilizumab Remdesivir Molnupiravir Ronapreve Baricitinib. Medsafe will assess these medicines before treatment for COVID-19. Find more information on Pharmac's website: Pharmac is funding COVID-19 treatments (external link) Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy with the COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic lights) is for New Zealanders to connect with friends and whānau, while also protecting everyone from serious illness. We do this through: testing anyone with symptoms hygiene measures such as washing our hands and wearing a face covering testing and tracing all potential contacts isolating cases and their contacts. Traffic lights High rates of vaccination is New Zealand’s key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19, and central to the settings in the framework. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: symptomatic people in the community asymptomatic testing of workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | esr.cri.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is a disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. It affects your lungs, airways and other organs. Coronaviruses are a large and diverse family of viruses that cause illnesses such as the common cold. Other recent diseases caused by coronaviruses include severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). SARS-CoV-2 was first recognised in China and likely originated in animals. It is still unclear how the virus came to infect humans. The disease spread to other countries, with the World Health Organization (WHO) declaring a pandemic on 11 March 2020. The virus has since undergone genetic mutations over time as it adapts to humans. Some of these mutations can spread more easily than the original virus. --- Section Separator --- It is a natural process for viruses to change or mutate, which may produce variants. Variants are developing around the world. This tends to happen in places where the virus is out of control. WHO is tracking variants of concern and variants of interest. Tracking SARS-CoV-2 variants | WHO website (external link) Variants of COVID-19 may affect how fast the virus spreads, or how sick people get from the virus. The current variants of concern are: Alpha — first found in the United Kingdom Beta — first found in South Africa Gamma — first found in Brazil Delta — first found in India Omicron — first found in South Africa. The Ministry of Health is providing updates on these variants. COVID-19: About the Delta variant (external link) COVID-19: About the Omicron variant (external link) COVID-19: Science news | health.govt.nz (external link) Omicron was first found in November 2021 and classed as a variant of concern by WHO. It has spread worldwide and is now present in more than 70 countries. Early evidence suggests it is more transmissible than previous variants of the virus, including Delta. But research is still underway and more data is needed to understand the extent of Omicron’s increased transmissibility. We expect more international data in the coming weeks. The possibility of new variants is why we continue to perform whole-genome sequencing on every case that enters New Zealand. Unlike travellers to many other countries, travellers to New Zealand must still have a series of COVID-19 tests and a period of isolation. These precautions reduce the chances of Omicron entering the community. Any potential impacts for New Zealand will be on this website. COVID-19: About the Omicron variant (external link) We are still learning about this new variant of the virus. Early reports suggest that, compared to Delta: Omicron is more transmissible Omicron may cause similar symptoms, but more data is still needed Omicron has similar hospitalisation rates, but more information is still needed to determine disease severity. To protect ourselves and our whānau from Omicron, we need to keep up the healthy habits we know. Keep up healthy habits When you are out and about this summer, remember to wear a mask, scan in, and have My Vaccine Pass ready so that we can make summer unstoppable. Prepare for your summer break --- Section Separator --- Cabinet has agreed a suite of precautionary measures to keep Omicron out of the community for as long as possible. All of the evidence so far points to Omicron being the most transmissible COVID-19 variant yet and public health advice says that soon, every case that comes into MIQ will be Omicron. Government's plan to minimise risk --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face covering. Keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- The symptoms of COVID-19 are like common illnesses such as the cold or flu. Some people will only experience mild to moderate symptoms. Older people, ethnic minorities, and those with underlying medical conditions are at higher risk of severe illness from the virus. Some people who have had the virus are suffering health impacts longer than a few weeks or months. This is commonly referred to as Long COVID. Symptoms of COVID-19 and Long COVID People at higher risk of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 causes 2 major issues that cause harm when someone is infected — a viral attack on the body and in some cases an immune reaction. Studies for new treatments cover both issues and concentrate on 3 areas. Antiviral drugs limiting the ability of the virus to thrive in the body. Medicines that calm the immune system over-reaction prompted in some patients. Antibody treatments that help the body fight the virus. The Ministry of Health has updates on pharmaceutical treatments for COVID-19. COVID-19 Science Updates | health.govt.nz (external link) Pharmac is funding appropriate COVID-19 treatments for New Zealanders. The agency decides which medicines to publicly fund in New Zealand. Pharmac has secured treatments for COVID-19, including: Tocilizumab Remdesivir Molnupiravir Ronapreve Baricitinib. Medsafe will assess these medicines before treatment for COVID-19. Find more information on Pharmac's website: Pharmac is funding COVID-19 treatments (external link) --- Section Separator --- Aotearoa New Zealand’s strategy with the COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic lights) is for New Zealanders to connect with friends and whānau, while also protecting everyone from serious illness. We do this through: testing anyone with symptoms hygiene measures such as washing our hands and wearing a face covering testing and tracing all potential contacts isolating cases and their contacts. Traffic lights High rates of vaccination is New Zealand’s key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19, and central to the settings in the framework. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available to everyone in New Zealand aged 12 and over. COVID-19 vaccines Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: symptomatic people in the community asymptomatic testing of workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | esr.cri.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms People at higher risk from COVID-19
Home Prepare and stay safe Be prepared for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- It is only a matter of time before a positive case of COVID-19 is in your community. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness, and will fully recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Being ready for getting COVID-19 is about making sure you and your household have a plan and know what to do. It will mean your whānau and community can help each other if needed. Download the COVID-19 Readiness Checklist [PDF, 121 KB] You need to work out what you will do if someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19 — the entire household will need to stay home. Identify people outside of your home who could help if your household is isolating, for example by dropping off food or supplies. Services like The Student Volunteer Army might be able to help with drop offs and Work and Income may be able to help with costs. Are there people in your household who might need extra care or support? Talk to any in-home carers you have and agree in advance about what will happen if you need to isolate. Make plans if you have shared custody of a child or dependant. Help and support if you have COVID-19 Talk to your employer, your child’s school, and community groups to find out what their plans are. Do they need anything from you? Will they be able to support you? Will you and your children be able to work or learn from home? Work out how to let people know your household is isolating — this could be a sign for your front door or fence and having a QR code poster so people can keep track of where they have been. If people are helping with contactless drop offs, do you want them to text or message before they arrive? Beep the car horn from the gate? Use an agreed entrance? We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Get your QR code poster Write down any household instructions someone else could easily follow if you get sick and have to go into managed isolation or hospital. Cover things like feeding pets, paying bills and watering plants. Think about how you could set up your home to minimise COVID-19 spreading. Draw a map of your home and mark out your zones, for example shared areas, isolation areas, and a sanitising station. Work out what you will need to help yourself and those around you. Make a list of whānau information — include everyone's names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medication they normally take or medical supplies each person will need. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, afterhours, and any support agencies. Gather things you enjoy. What might help stop boredom if you are isolating at home? Put together a wellness kit — face coverings, hand sanitiser, gloves, tissues, rubbish bags, cleaning products. Make sure you have things to help you with COVID-19 symptoms — like pain relief, throat lozenges, cough medicine, ice blocks, vapour rubs. Make sure the people who matter know what they will need to do. Have a house meeting so everyone (including younger ones) knows what to do, how to support each other and who to contact if someone gets sick or has to go to hospital. Share your plan with wider whānau, neighbours and regular manuhiri/visitors and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. We are all in this together and we will get through together. Stay connected — arrange regular catch-ups with your whānau, friends and community. If you are isolating, make sure these are online or by phone. Support your friends, whānau and workmates to make their own plans to get ready. Find out what your community is doing — is there a group making meals to freeze, sharing planning tips or just staying in the know? Find contact and support services Help and support if you test positive for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 What to expect when self-isolating at home What to expect if you go into managed isolation --- Section Separator --- It is only a matter of time before a positive case of COVID-19 is in your community. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness, and will fully recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Being ready for getting COVID-19 is about making sure you and your household have a plan and know what to do. It will mean your whānau and community can help each other if needed. Download the COVID-19 Readiness Checklist [PDF, 121 KB] --- Section Separator --- You need to work out what you will do if someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19 — the entire household will need to stay home. Identify people outside of your home who could help if your household is isolating, for example by dropping off food or supplies. Services like The Student Volunteer Army might be able to help with drop offs and Work and Income may be able to help with costs. Are there people in your household who might need extra care or support? Talk to any in-home carers you have and agree in advance about what will happen if you need to isolate. Make plans if you have shared custody of a child or dependant. Help and support if you have COVID-19 Talk to your employer, your child’s school, and community groups to find out what their plans are. Do they need anything from you? Will they be able to support you? Will you and your children be able to work or learn from home? Work out how to let people know your household is isolating — this could be a sign for your front door or fence and having a QR code poster so people can keep track of where they have been. If people are helping with contactless drop offs, do you want them to text or message before they arrive? Beep the car horn from the gate? Use an agreed entrance? We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] Get your QR code poster Write down any household instructions someone else could easily follow if you get sick and have to go into managed isolation or hospital. Cover things like feeding pets, paying bills and watering plants. Think about how you could set up your home to minimise COVID-19 spreading. Draw a map of your home and mark out your zones, for example shared areas, isolation areas, and a sanitising station. --- Section Separator --- Work out what you will need to help yourself and those around you. Make a list of whānau information — include everyone's names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medication they normally take or medical supplies each person will need. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, afterhours, and any support agencies. Gather things you enjoy. What might help stop boredom if you are isolating at home? Put together a wellness kit — face coverings, hand sanitiser, gloves, tissues, rubbish bags, cleaning products. Make sure you have things to help you with COVID-19 symptoms — like pain relief, throat lozenges, cough medicine, ice blocks, vapour rubs. --- Section Separator --- Make sure the people who matter know what they will need to do. Have a house meeting so everyone (including younger ones) knows what to do, how to support each other and who to contact if someone gets sick or has to go to hospital. Share your plan with wider whānau, neighbours and regular manuhiri/visitors and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. --- Section Separator --- We are all in this together and we will get through together. Stay connected — arrange regular catch-ups with your whānau, friends and community. If you are isolating, make sure these are online or by phone. Support your friends, whānau and workmates to make their own plans to get ready. Find out what your community is doing — is there a group making meals to freeze, sharing planning tips or just staying in the know? --- Section Separator --- Find contact and support services Help and support if you test positive for COVID-19 If you test positive for COVID-19 What to expect when self-isolating at home What to expect if you go into managed isolation --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Be prepared for COVID-19 Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities
Home Prepare and stay safe COVID-19 support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. I am looking for... Communication and language support Financial support Contact us Report a breach Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- It is OK to ask for help. As we work through this together, there are people and agencies able to support you. Here is a range of advice, help, or support if you need it. Download a list of available services and support [PDF, 164 KB] Updated 30 August 2021 --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 Healthline kaimahi support people with information and advice about COVID-19. This includes clinical advice about symptoms and non-clinical advice about testing locations. Call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. For any other health concerns, call the general Healthline number on 0800 611 116 . You can call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Interpreter services are available. --- Section Separator --- Find who to contact for COVID-19 related support. --- Section Separator --- There may be support available for employers, employees and those who have lost their job or had their income reduced, or assistance to buy food.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities The COVID downlow A lot of stuff changed when COVID-19 turned up in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out what it means for you and the things that are important in  your life. --- Section Separator --- Many of us are finding things tricky at the moment. It's OK to ask for help. Find support and tips for how to cope. Do these easy things to keep yourself and others safe. For many people, COVID-19 has meant changes to their job. If you can't work, find out about what support you could get. --- Section Separator --- Support is available from different communities. Find out where you can go. Different traffic light settings mean different things for schools, universities and other training places. We're on TikTok, Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and LinkedIn.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities The COVID downlow Education Different traffic light settings mean different things for schools, universities and other training places. --- Section Separator --- You might need to study at home if you do not have a My Vaccine Pass. Being at home can make it hard to focus on school work, especially when everyone else is at home too. Studying can be stressful, but there are techniques you can use to cope. The Lowdown has advice. Study stress | The Lowdown (external link) You can get help and tips about preparing for NCEA Maths, Sciences and English exams at StudyIt. You can post an NCEA exam question on its discussion forum and a teacher/facilitator will respond. StudyIt | studyit.govt.nz (external link) Auckland University has tips for studying at home, including staying active, keeping in touch with friends, and making to-do lists. Tips for studying at home | Auckland University (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for disabled people This section contains information about COVID-19 and vaccination for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. --- Section Separator --- From 17 January 2022, parents and caregivers will have the opportunity to protect their tamariki (children) aged 5 to 11 against COVID-19 with the child version of the Pfizer vaccine. Young people aged 12 to 15 can get vaccinated now. Learn more about vaccinations for children The booster rollout is changing from 6 months to 4 months. You can now go to a pharmacy or your GP and get your booster if you had your second dose before September 2021. You will also be able to book your booster through the website Book My Vaccine from 17 January 2022. Learn more about booster doses Information about booster doses — Easy Read [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about booster doses — Easy Read [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting a COVID-19 vaccine protects you, your whānau and your community. The vaccine teaches your body how to fight the virus. It will protect you from getting very sick if you do get COVID-19. It protects your whānau and friends because you are less likely to pass COVID-19 on to people around you. --- Section Separator --- If you are worried about getting the vaccine, you can talk to a trained advisor in the Healthline disability team. The team is made up of people who have experience of a disability themselves, or who have worked with the disabled community. They will support you, your whānau or someone you care for and answer any questions you may have about: accessibility arrangements and getting mobility assistance at different vaccination centres getting your vaccination safely home vaccinations any effects the vaccine may have on you or your medications. The disability team is available Monday to Friday, from 8am to 8pm. Call: 0800 28 29 26 and push 2 Free text: 8988 Email: accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is an official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. You may need to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter venues like cafes, bars and gyms and go to events. There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass: online using My Covid Record (external link) calling 0800 222 478 — 8am to 5pm, Monday to Friday. in person at a vaccination site like a pharmacy. If you need help, call 0800 28 29 26 and press 2 to speak to the disability team. Once you get your pass, save it on your phone, or print it out and keep it in a safe place. Remember to take your My Vaccine Pass with you wherever you go. How to get your My Vaccine Pass Information about My Vaccine Pass — Easy Read [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass — Easy Read [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about My Covid Record — Easy Read [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record — Easy Read [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- If you have decided you want to get the vaccine, it is easy to get vaccinated. You can get your vaccination at: an accessible site your doctor or local pharmacy any other vaccination centre near you. You can also talk to, text or email a trained advisor to discuss whether a home vaccination is right for you. Some vaccination centres are fully accessible. Your family, whānau and support workers are also welcome to get their vaccinations with you. Fully accessible vaccination centres Map of vaccination centres around Aotearoa New Zealand | karawhiua.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can book your vaccination by: calling the COVID Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and pushing '2' to speak to the disability team. The COVID Healthline is open from 8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday. using the free text option on 8988 . emailing accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz using Book My Vaccine (external link) . The website is accessible and can be used with a screen reader. The disability team can also help you book an appointment for your tamariki. --- Section Separator --- You can take a support person with you when you get your vaccination. This can be a carer, or someone else you trust. When you get to the vaccination site, you will need to sign in. If you need an NZSL interpreter or information in an accessible format, please ask. When it is your time to get vaccinated, the staff will ask you whether it is okay to give you the vaccine. If you say yes, this is called consent. If you cannot give consent, someone who is allowed to make decisions for you can give consent for you. The vaccinator may also ask you questions about how you are feeling, and what medication you take. It is normal to feel scared or worried. Ask the vaccinator if you have any questions. You will need to wait for 15 minutes after your vaccination. If this is hard for you, ask if you can wait somewhere else. --- Section Separator --- Why it's important for disabled tamariki to get the COVID-19 vaccine Our vaccination journey — Victoria and Arlo My vaccination journey — Nick My vaccination journey — Cyrus What to expect if you have a needle phobia 3 simple ways to book your vaccine --- Section Separator --- You can choose to get the vaccine. You can say yes or no or ask for help making your decision. For disabled people or people with an impairment, the journey to get vaccinated may look a little different. We have created the Manaakitanga Journey online tool to help support disabled people to get vaccinated. The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [DOCX, 66 KB] The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [PDF, 539 KB] The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [PNG, 1 MB] Toolkit for organisations working with disabled people [PDF, 2.7 MB] Read our answers to some of the most commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine Read vaccine advice if you have a health condition Use the decision making tool to help. You can fill in the tool yourself and take it with you to your vaccination appointment. Make a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) Talk to your whānau or a trusted support person. Talk to your doctor. Your doctor is the health professional who knows you best. You might want to ask your doctor questions about the COVID-19 vaccine — for example how the vaccine may affect any health problems you have, or if there are any risks for you. If you are supporting someone with a disability to make a decision about getting the COVID-19 vaccine, you can use one of the supported decision making tools. Choose the guidance tool or combination of tools that best suits the person you are supporting. Tools for supporting disabled people to make a decision about the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- Even though face coverings are mandatory in many places, we know that some people who have a disability may not be able to wear a face covering safely or comfortably. If you cannot wear one, you can get an exemption card. You can show your face covering exemption card when needed, for example to a bus driver. You do not need to have a face covering exemption card, but you may feel more comfortable showing something official to confirm you cannot wear a face covering. If you are having trouble communicating with someone who is wearing a face covering, you can ask them to remove it during your conversation. If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can request a card from: Disabled Persons Assembly NZ by contacting them on 04 801 9100 or emailing them at info@dpa.org.nz. Blind Citizens NZ on 0800 222 694 or emailing them at admin@abcnz.org.nz Deaf Aotearoa by emailing covid@deaf.org.nz --- Section Separator --- It is okay to be worried about COVID-19. If you feel like this, it is important to look after your mental health. Talking to someone can help your mental health. You can talk to someone that you trust like a friend, family member, carer, support worker or a doctor. Look after yourself by eating healthy food, getting a good night's sleep, or going out for exercise. Stay connected with your whānau and friends. You can also keep in touch with them by phone, through social media or video calls. There are websites you can visit and phone lines you can call if you need help. Check our the free services and resources available to you If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to get financial assistance. Financial support for individuals and whānau It is important that you continue to access the disability services you need. Talk to your care provider to find out if there any changes to how you access any services because of traffic light settings. --- Section Separator --- Find information about COVID-19 in alternate formats: New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori --- Section Separator --- The best way to protect you, your whānau and your community from COVID-19 is to get vaccinated. Karawhiua provides trusted and up-to-date information on the vaccine for whānau and Māori communities. Be a doer! Karawhiua (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ko Taku Tohu Ārai Mate he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- Ko Taku Tohu Ārai Mate he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- These guidelines were developed to clarify public health measures and support marae to make their own decisions for the safety and wellbeing of their whānau, hapū, and iwi . We acknowledge that many iwi have already put together COVID-19 response plans for their hapū and marae. Marae should contact their tribal authority in the first instance if they have further questions. Marae guidance at Red Marae guidance at Orange Marae guidance at Green --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. Check out free services and resources Funding and support is available. Find more information from Te Puni Kōkiri. Funding and support | tpk.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ruthie was 7 months hapū, with her baby Hope, when she contracted COVID-19 last year at a tangihanga. She shares her experience of being the first hapū māmā with COVID-19 in Aotearoa and her thoughts on the vaccine. Ruthie’s story is part of the Te Puni Kōkiri-led Karawhiua campaign which encourages whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities to make an informed choice about getting vaccinated against COVID-19. Watch Ruthie’s full story at Karawhiua (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in the community. To slow the spread and continue to protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. --- Section Separator --- Wear a mask or face covering when out and about. Depending on the traffic light setting, there are some places you must wear one. Scan everywhere you go or keep a record manually. This is especially important on holiday because you may not remember all the locations you visited or who you saw. Have My Vaccine Pass ready for places that require proof of vaccination to enter, like cafes, bars, gyms and hairdressers. --- Section Separator --- Wear a mask or face covering when out and about. Depending on the traffic light setting, there are some places you must wear one. Scan everywhere you go or keep a record manually. This is especially important on holiday because you may not remember all the locations you visited or who you saw. Have My Vaccine Pass ready for places that require proof of vaccination to enter, like cafes, bars, gyms and hairdressers. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you should get a test. You must stay home until you get a negative result. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you are helping to keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. COVID-19 symptoms Get tested for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. You should wash your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth, if your hands are not clean. Using hand sanitiser is also effective at killing germs and viruses. It destroys the protective bubble of the virus, but only if the sanitiser has at least 60% alcohol. Sanitiser is also effective in reducing the number and type of germs on your hands. --- Section Separator --- Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash your hands thoroughly. This will catch the droplets and keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. --- Section Separator --- Clean surfaces regularly. This includes frequently touched items like door handles, light switches and phones. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- The risk of becoming infected with COVID-19 increases the closer you are to a person and the longer you are close to that person. The risk is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. The risk is lower outside when there are fewer people, and when you are further away from others. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. If air conditioning is used, make sure the system is regularly maintained. Find out more about reducing the risk of COVID-19 through ventilation | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are not required to maintain physical distance from others in the traffic light system. But it is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it is in the community.
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Keep track of where you have been NZ COVID Tracer app The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you keep track of where you have been. Using the app is one thing we can all do to help contact tracing go faster when there is a case of COVID-19 in the community, and stop it from spreading. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to: scan QR codes to create a private digital diary of the places you visit — the more we scan the safer we will be use Bluetooth tracing to keep an anonymised record of the people you have been near — turn it on under the 'Dashboard' section register your contact details in the 'My data' section so contact tracers can get in touch if they need to How to register your information (external link) save your National Health Index (NHI) number in the 'My data' section to speed up the process if you need a test Where to find your NHI number if you do not know it (external link) add more details after you have scanned a QR code in the text box, such as who you are with or what you were doing — it is a great way to keep track of friends or whānau who do not have the app add a manual entry if you cannot scan a QR code — you can view and edit your diary at any time use a previous scan to manually backfill your diary save locations you go to frequently. --- Section Separator --- Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. Bluetooth tracing does not replace scanning QR codes — you still need to keep track of where you have been. Bluetooth tracing helps keep track of the people you have been near. Think of it like your phone is giving a digital high-five to other people's phones. You do not have to have the app open for it to work, but you do need to have Bluetooth on your phone turned on. It does not use mobile data or drain your phone battery. Bluetooth tracing is entirely anonymous. No personal or identifying information swaps between phones. Bluetooth tracing cannot track your movements. No one will ever see who you have been near, or when or where you were near them, even if you test positive for COVID-19. How privacy is protected in the NZ COVID Tracer app (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some places you visit will have tags that you can tap with your phone to create a diary entry. You can do this instead of scanning the QR code. This is called Near Field Communication (NFC). NFC uses the same technology as contactless payments or tapping on and off your bus. You can only tap in with NFC if the place you are visiting has NFC tags available. If they do not, just scan their QR code like usual. The Ministry of Health has more information about NFC, which phones have this capability, and how to order tags for your business. NFC tags for NZ COVID Tracer | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Get information about the NZ COVID Tracer app in other languages and alternate formats.
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Stay safe this summer When you are out and about, remember to wear a mask, scan in, and have My Vaccine Pass ready so that we can make summer unstoppable. --- Section Separator --- Wear a mask or face covering when out and about. Depending on the traffic light setting, there are some places you must wear one. Scan everywhere you go or keep a record manually. This is especially important on holiday because you may not remember all the locations you visited or who you saw. Have My Vaccine Pass ready for places that require proof of vaccination to enter, like cafes, bars, gyms and hairdressers. --- Section Separator --- Wear a mask or face covering when out and about. Depending on the traffic light setting, there are some places you must wear one. Scan everywhere you go or keep a record manually. This is especially important on holiday because you may not remember all the locations you visited or who you saw. Have My Vaccine Pass ready for places that require proof of vaccination to enter, like cafes, bars, gyms and hairdressers. --- Section Separator --- As Kiwis travel around the country this summer we may see an increase in COVID-19 in our communities. Some people may get COVID-19, even if vaccinated and following the rules. Vaccinated people are less likely to develop serious illness and less likely to be hospitalised. If you are heading away over summer, it is important you and your whānau have a plan for what you will do if anyone tests positive for COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Testing services will be available throughout the Christmas, New Year and the holiday period. If you need to get a test, call Healthline or check Healthpoint for details of the nearest testing service, including opening hours. 0800 358 5453 healthpoint.co.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are hosting or inviting people into your home here are some tips to keep everyone safe. Encourage guests to wash and dry their hands or to sanitise their hands when they arrive, and practice good hygiene. If possible, have some hand sanitiser available for everyone to use. Consider having windows or doors open to provide ventilation. If the weather is suitable, you could host your event outdoors. Try to avoid shared utensils and limit the number of people preparing, handling and serving food. Keep a note of all the people who visit you at home, or at your holiday destination. You can create your own QR code and encourage those who visit to scan in with the NZ COVID Tracer app. Get a NZ COVID Tracer poster (external link) Follow the advice for holding gatherings at Red and Orange: Gatherings at Red Gatherings at Orange --- Section Separator --- If you are unwell or have been exposed to a COVID-19 case, contact Healthline for advice and to arrange a test immediately. It might be tempting to continue with your Christmas plans, but you play an important role in protecting others from becoming unwell, including from COVID-19, by limiting their exposure to anyone who is sick. While you are unwell or waiting for a negative test result: stay at home do not travel do not take part in events, activities, or socialising do not invite people over or host events. Phone Healthline: 0800 358 5453 --- Section Separator --- Look after yourself and your whānau this festive season and summer holidays. Take any opportunity to rest and enjoy a break. We all need a bit of support from time to time, and if you or someone you know is struggling, there is free help available. Mental wellbeing support (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face covering Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. You should wear one whenever you can. COVID-19 spreads by droplets, so face coverings are a way we can protect ourselves and others. --- Section Separator --- It is mandatory to wear a face covering on domestic flights. You are encouraged to wear a face covering in public indoor settings. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face covering whenever you leave the house. It is mandatory to wear a face covering: on domestic flights on public transport and at arrival and departure points, this includes Cook Strait Ferries and school transport but does not include designated carriages on specified Kiwirail services in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic visiting the public areas within courts, tribunals, local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a healthcare service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility. --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face covering whenever you leave the house. It is mandatory to wear a face covering: on domestic flights on public transport and at arrival and departure points, this includes Cook Strait Ferries and school transport but does not include designated carriages on specified Kiwirail services in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public venues or facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic in an indoor setting at schools, for example a classroom and assemblies. This includes students in Years 4 to 13 and staff inside at tertiary education facilities or when a visitor to a licensed early childhood service in the public areas within courts, tribunals, local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a health care service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility. --- Section Separator --- For some people wearing a face covering is unsuitable. If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You should only request an exemption card if you have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable. Find a list of exemptions — where a face covering does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. Who does not need to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face covering helps keep you and others safe. They are particularly useful when physical distancing is not possible. A face covering needs to go over your nose and mouth. A suitable reusable or disposable face covering is needed to help protect against the airborne spread of COVID-19. A single-use face covering can only be worn once, and we recommend you throw it away after wearing it. Put it in a rubbish bin, or in a bag and throw it out. Do not put face coverings in the recycling. Fabric reusable face coverings can be washed and reused. A face shield is not recommended as it is less effective than a face covering that covers your nose and mouth. Dust masks are also not recommended, as they have a one-way valve which can allow droplets to spread. Many stores and online retailers now offer face coverings. If you do not have a face covering, you do not need to buy one. You can make one with what you have available at home. How to make a face covering How to wear a face covering safely --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has advice about the requirements for face coverings in different sectors. Face covering requirement for workers and customers | business.govt.nz (external link) The Ministry of Health has information about the use of personal protective equipment (PPE) in a health and disability care setting. PPE in health and disability care settings | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face covering Who does not need to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face covering does not need to be worn. We also know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. Please be mindful of this. They still have the right to food, pharmacies and other services. In general, you should wear a face covering whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by droplets, so face coverings are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. by children under 12, except in a school setting at Red for Years 4 and up on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry. it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind or has a disability which makes it hard to have effective communication you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. An exemption card is available that you can show to transport operators, retailers and service providers. Exemption cards are not mandatory but make it easier whenever you need to explain that a face covering is unsuitable for you. Sometimes the reason why a face covering is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face covering. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face covering. If you cannot wear a face covering, you need to keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You can request a card from: Disabled Persons Assembly NZ by contacting them on 04 801 9100 or emailing them at info@dpa.org.nz — for disabled people or if you have a health condition Blind Citizens NZ on 0800 222 694 or emailing them at admin@abcnz.org.nz — for blind, deafblind, low vision, and vision-impaired people Deaf Aotearoa by emailing covid@deaf.org.nz — for people who are Deaf or hard of hearing. You should only request an exemption card if you have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable. --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face covering does not need to be worn. We also know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. Please be mindful of this. They still have the right to food, pharmacies and other services. In general, you should wear a face covering whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by droplets, so face coverings are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a face covering. by children under 12, except in a school setting at Red for Years 4 and up on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry. it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind or has a disability which makes it hard to have effective communication you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. --- Section Separator --- We know that some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face covering. An exemption card is available that you can show to transport operators, retailers and service providers. Exemption cards are not mandatory but make it easier whenever you need to explain that a face covering is unsuitable for you. Sometimes the reason why a face covering is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face covering. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face covering. If you cannot wear a face covering, you need to keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of where you have been and who you have seen. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. --- Section Separator --- If you cannot wear a face covering, you can get an exemption card. You can show your exemption card when needed. You can request a card from: Disabled Persons Assembly NZ by contacting them on 04 801 9100 or emailing them at info@dpa.org.nz — for disabled people or if you have a health condition Blind Citizens NZ on 0800 222 694 or emailing them at admin@abcnz.org.nz — for blind, deafblind, low vision, and vision-impaired people Deaf Aotearoa by emailing covid@deaf.org.nz — for people who are Deaf or hard of hearing. You should only request an exemption card if you have a disability or health condition that makes wearing a face covering unsuitable. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Who does not need to wear a face covering How to wear a face covering safely How to make a face covering Who does not need to wear a face covering Keep track of where you have been Stay safe this summer
Home Prepare and stay safe Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Getting through together | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | dia.govt.nz (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Getting through together | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | dia.govt.nz (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 Be prepared for COVID-19 Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities
Home Testing and tracing Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. What you need to know Rapid antigen tests Locations of interest What to do if you have been at a location of interest How contact tracing works If you test positive for COVID-19 Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. NZ COVID Tracer app --- Section Separator --- Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. Information about contact tracing and how it allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. --- Section Separator --- Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. Information about contact tracing and how it allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one.
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Casual and Casual Plus Contacts --- Section Separator --- Casual Plus Contacts are people who are not fully vaccinated and were near someone infectious with COVID-19. This will only be in some specific situations like at a school. Stay home for 7 days from your last contact with the case. Isolate from others in your household if you can. Get a test straight away and on day 5 after your last contact with the case. You can leave the house after 7 days and once you have received a negative day 5 test result. Monitor for symptoms for 10 days. If you develop symptoms after day 5, get a test immediately and stay home until you get a negative test result. Casual Contacts are people who have been at a location of interest at the same time as someone infectious with COVID-19. But they may not have been near the infectious person. Casual Contacts are at lower risk of getting sick with COVID-19. Watch for symptoms for 10 days. If you do get symptoms, get a test, and stay home until you get a negative test result. Watch for symptoms and if you do get symptoms: stay home call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 get tested. You are not required to get a test or isolate if you live with someone who is a Casual or Casual Plus contact. This applies to both fully vaccinated and not fully vaccinated people. There’s financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Financial support You can find more information and advice on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Casual Plus Contacts are people who are not fully vaccinated and were near someone infectious with COVID-19. This will only be in some specific situations like at a school. --- Section Separator --- Stay home for 7 days from your last contact with the case. Isolate from others in your household if you can. Get a test straight away and on day 5 after your last contact with the case. You can leave the house after 7 days and once you have received a negative day 5 test result. Monitor for symptoms for 10 days. If you develop symptoms after day 5, get a test immediately and stay home until you get a negative test result. --- Section Separator --- Casual Contacts are people who have been at a location of interest at the same time as someone infectious with COVID-19. But they may not have been near the infectious person. Casual Contacts are at lower risk of getting sick with COVID-19. Watch for symptoms for 10 days. If you do get symptoms, get a test, and stay home until you get a negative test result. --- Section Separator --- Watch for symptoms and if you do get symptoms: stay home call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 get tested. --- Section Separator --- You are not required to get a test or isolate if you live with someone who is a Casual or Casual Plus contact. This applies to both fully vaccinated and not fully vaccinated people. --- Section Separator --- There’s financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Financial support --- Section Separator --- You can find more information and advice on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Close Contacts Casual and Casual Plus Contacts
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- You are considered a Close Contact you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. You may live, work or have been at a location of interest at the same time as someone with COVID-19. For example, household members, travellers on a plane, or if you sit next to someone at work who has COVID-19. Close Contacts are at higher risk of getting COVID-19. If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you can expect to be contacted by someone from the Ministry of Health’s National Investigation and Tracing Centre or a Public Health Unit. You may receive an orange Bluetooth notification via the NZ COVID Tracer app. The notification will provide advice about what to do and it is important to follow these instructions. You may also receive a yellow QR notification for a location of interest via the NZ COVID Tracer app. You should get tested immediately. Whether you are vaccinated or not, you need to: stay home and self-isolate from others for 10 days from your last contact with the case get a test for COVID-19 straight away, another one 5 days after your last contact with the case, and another one 8 days after your last contact with the case get another test straight away if you develop COVID-19 symptoms. If you are fully vaccinated , you need to: stay home and self-isolate from others for 7 days from your last contact with the case get a test for COVID-19 straight away and another one 5 days after your last contact with the case get another test straight away if you develop COVID-19 symptoms. You are fully vaccinated if it has been 7 days or more since you got your second dose. If you are not fully vaccinated , you need to: stay home and self-isolate from others for 10 days from your last contact with the case get a test for COVID-19 straight away, another one 5 days after your last contact, and another one 8 days after your last contact with the case get another test straight away if you develop COVID-19 symptoms. You are not fully vaccinated if you have had no doses, 1 dose, or it has been less than 7 days since you got your second dose. You are considered a secondary contact if someone you live with is a Close Contact who is: not fully vaccinated has been asked to isolate If you are not fully vaccinated then you are advised to stay at home until the Close Contact in your household receives a negative day 5 test result. If you become symptomatic after day 5, you need to isolate until you return another negative test result. You are not required to isolate or get tested. There’s financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment You can find more information and advice on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You are considered a Close Contact you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. You may live, work or have been at a location of interest at the same time as someone with COVID-19. For example, household members, travellers on a plane, or if you sit next to someone at work who has COVID-19. Close Contacts are at higher risk of getting COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you can expect to be contacted by someone from the Ministry of Health’s National Investigation and Tracing Centre or a Public Health Unit. You may receive an orange Bluetooth notification via the NZ COVID Tracer app. The notification will provide advice about what to do and it is important to follow these instructions. You may also receive a yellow QR notification for a location of interest via the NZ COVID Tracer app. You should get tested immediately. --- Section Separator --- Whether you are vaccinated or not, you need to: stay home and self-isolate from others for 10 days from your last contact with the case get a test for COVID-19 straight away, another one 5 days after your last contact with the case, and another one 8 days after your last contact with the case get another test straight away if you develop COVID-19 symptoms. If you are fully vaccinated , you need to: stay home and self-isolate from others for 7 days from your last contact with the case get a test for COVID-19 straight away and another one 5 days after your last contact with the case get another test straight away if you develop COVID-19 symptoms. You are fully vaccinated if it has been 7 days or more since you got your second dose. If you are not fully vaccinated , you need to: stay home and self-isolate from others for 10 days from your last contact with the case get a test for COVID-19 straight away, another one 5 days after your last contact, and another one 8 days after your last contact with the case get another test straight away if you develop COVID-19 symptoms. You are not fully vaccinated if you have had no doses, 1 dose, or it has been less than 7 days since you got your second dose. --- Section Separator --- You are considered a secondary contact if someone you live with is a Close Contact who is: not fully vaccinated has been asked to isolate If you are not fully vaccinated then you are advised to stay at home until the Close Contact in your household receives a negative day 5 test result. If you become symptomatic after day 5, you need to isolate until you return another negative test result. You are not required to isolate or get tested. --- Section Separator --- There’s financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment --- Section Separator --- You can find more information and advice on the Ministry of Health’s website. Contact tracing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Close Contacts Casual and Casual Plus Contacts
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- Anyone in New Zealand can get a free COVID-19 test. You do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call Healthline, your doctor or iwi health provider. They will tell you if you should get a COVID-19 test. Community-based testing for COVID-19 is available through district health boards and public health units across the country. Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested for COVID-19. The Government requires most workers crossing the Auckland boundary to get tested for COVID-19. When leaving the Auckland boundary you need My Vaccine Pass or evidence of a negative COVID-19 test. Some countries need travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Anyone in New Zealand can get a free COVID-19 test. You do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, call Healthline, your doctor or iwi health provider. They will tell you if you should get a COVID-19 test. Community-based testing for COVID-19 is available through district health boards and public health units across the country. Healthline or your doctor will tell you what to do if you need to get tested for COVID-19. The Government requires most workers crossing the Auckland boundary to get tested for COVID-19. When leaving the Auckland boundary you need My Vaccine Pass or evidence of a negative COVID-19 test. Some countries need travellers to confirm a negative COVID-19 test before they leave New Zealand.
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing How testing works --- Section Separator --- If you are told to get a test by a health official or fall under mandatory testing, your COVID-19 test is free of charge. For example, if you work at the border or are a contact of a confirmed case. Testing for these purposes is free regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not have to pay for your care if you test positive. Surveillance testing by the business sector, which is outside of mandatory requirements, is not part of the public health response and is not free. You may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not have to pay for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. You will need to provide contact details so that you can get your test results. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it is helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) In New Zealand there are 3 types of tests for COVID-19: a swab of the back of your nose — this is often called a nasopharyngeal test, or PCR test saliva testing — this testing is available for border workers and workers crossing a controlled boundary rapid antigen test — generally taken with a front of nose swab. Rapid antigen tests are not mandatory and will not be suitable for everyone. It is up to businesses to choose whether they want to accept rapid antigen tests. Rapid antigen tests offer: a much faster turnaround than a laboratory PCR test (about 15 minutes compared to 2 to 5 days) an additional level of protection for a business’ workers, contacts, and customers. Rapid antigen tests are not : as accurate at detecting COVID-19 as nasal and saliva PCR tests (a positive rapid antigen test result must be confirmed with a PCR test) used for diagnosis of people with COVID-19 symptoms a replacement for existing nasal and saliva PCR tests mandatory for businesses acceptable for mandatory surveillance testing under the Required Testing Order (RTO) a replacement for vaccination. Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers leaving Auckland who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms. The tests will be also available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company, for example Air New Zealand. Pharmacies offering rapid antigen tests can be found on the Healthpoint website: COVID-19 testing: Supervised rapid antigen testing | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) If you get a positive result, you will need to get a get a follow-up PCR test from your doctor or community testing centre. Even if you have had your vaccination, you should still get tested for COVID-19 if you develop symptoms or if you are subject to regular testing. The vaccine is highly effective if people have both doses. Studies have shown that 95% of people who received both doses of the vaccine were protected against getting seriously ill. If you do get COVID-19, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill or spread the virus to others. Research is still ongoing to determine whether a vaccinated person can still pass the virus to someone else. So we must assume there is still risk of transmission. Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: symptomatic people in the community asymptomatic testing of workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | esr.cri.nz (external link) The Ministry of Health publishes testing data in New Zealand, including how many COVID-19 tests are taken. COVID-19 testing data | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are told to get a test by a health official or fall under mandatory testing, your COVID-19 test is free of charge. For example, if you work at the border or are a contact of a confirmed case. Testing for these purposes is free regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not have to pay for your care if you test positive. Surveillance testing by the business sector, which is outside of mandatory requirements, is not part of the public health response and is not free. You may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Everyone can get tested — you do not need to be a New Zealand citizen or resident. The test is still free, and you will not have to pay for care if you test positive. But, you may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. No information will be shared with Immigration New Zealand even if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- You will need to provide contact details so that you can get your test results. You do not need to have an NHI number or ID to get tested. But it is helpful to have your NHI number with you when you get tested. How to find your NHI number (external link) --- Section Separator --- In New Zealand there are 3 types of tests for COVID-19: a swab of the back of your nose — this is often called a nasopharyngeal test, or PCR test saliva testing — this testing is available for border workers and workers crossing a controlled boundary rapid antigen test — generally taken with a front of nose swab. Rapid antigen tests are not mandatory and will not be suitable for everyone. It is up to businesses to choose whether they want to accept rapid antigen tests. Rapid antigen tests offer: a much faster turnaround than a laboratory PCR test (about 15 minutes compared to 2 to 5 days) an additional level of protection for a business’ workers, contacts, and customers. Rapid antigen tests are not : as accurate at detecting COVID-19 as nasal and saliva PCR tests (a positive rapid antigen test result must be confirmed with a PCR test) used for diagnosis of people with COVID-19 symptoms a replacement for existing nasal and saliva PCR tests mandatory for businesses acceptable for mandatory surveillance testing under the Required Testing Order (RTO) a replacement for vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers leaving Auckland who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms. The tests will be also available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company, for example Air New Zealand. Pharmacies offering rapid antigen tests can be found on the Healthpoint website: COVID-19 testing: Supervised rapid antigen testing | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) If you get a positive result, you will need to get a get a follow-up PCR test from your doctor or community testing centre. --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had your vaccination, you should still get tested for COVID-19 if you develop symptoms or if you are subject to regular testing. The vaccine is highly effective if people have both doses. Studies have shown that 95% of people who received both doses of the vaccine were protected against getting seriously ill. If you do get COVID-19, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill or spread the virus to others. Research is still ongoing to determine whether a vaccinated person can still pass the virus to someone else. So we must assume there is still risk of transmission. --- Section Separator --- Wastewater testing is being used as an extra tool to help check for COVID-19 in New Zealand. It is being used as a surveillance tool alongside testing of: symptomatic people in the community asymptomatic testing of workers at the border and in managed isolation and quarantine facilities. Information on wastewater testing for COVID-19 (external link) COVID-19 wastewater testing results around the country | esr.cri.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes testing data in New Zealand, including how many COVID-19 tests are taken. COVID-19 testing data | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- How testing works When you should get a test Where to get tested What happens when you get a test Testing for workers crossing the Auckland boundary Testing for travellers crossing the Auckland boundary Testing requirements for international travellers
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Testing requirements for international travellers --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling to New Zealand, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. Travellers from Antarctica and most Pacific islands do not need to get pre-departure tests. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 48 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling to New Zealand, you must have a negative COVID-19 test result before the scheduled departure of your first international flight. Travellers from Antarctica and most Pacific islands do not need to get pre-departure tests. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned no more than 48 hours before the scheduled departure time of your first international departure. Check the requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to, by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- How testing works When you should get a test Where to get tested What happens when you get a test Testing for workers crossing the Auckland boundary Testing for travellers crossing the Auckland boundary Testing requirements for international travellers
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Testing for travellers crossing the Auckland boundary --- Section Separator --- From 15 December 2021 to 17 January 2022, you can travel into and out of Auckland for any reason but you must follow some restrictions to leave Auckland. When leaving Auckland, no matter how long you have been inside the boundary: you must be fully vaccinated and have your My Vaccine Pass with you, or you must carry evidence of a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 72 hours before crossing the boundary. You do not need to follow these requirements: if you are aged under 12 years and 3 months if you are transiting through Auckland without stopping when going into Auckland. Get your My Vaccine Pass Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers leaving Auckland who: are unvaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms. Find a community pharmacy or testing centre (external link) Travellers can still use a negative PCR test to meet any travel requirements, but it is not recommended. Using a rapid antigen test will allow our laboratories to focus on processing PCR tests so symptomatic people and close contacts of confirmed cases can receive their results sooner. Getting tested if you are a worker and you need to cross the boundary --- Section Separator --- From 15 December 2021 to 17 January 2022, you can travel into and out of Auckland for any reason but you must follow some restrictions to leave Auckland. When leaving Auckland, no matter how long you have been inside the boundary: you must be fully vaccinated and have your My Vaccine Pass with you, or you must carry evidence of a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 72 hours before crossing the boundary. You do not need to follow these requirements: if you are aged under 12 years and 3 months if you are transiting through Auckland without stopping when going into Auckland. Get your My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers leaving Auckland who: are unvaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms. Find a community pharmacy or testing centre (external link) Travellers can still use a negative PCR test to meet any travel requirements, but it is not recommended. Using a rapid antigen test will allow our laboratories to focus on processing PCR tests so symptomatic people and close contacts of confirmed cases can receive their results sooner. --- Section Separator --- Getting tested if you are a worker and you need to cross the boundary --- Section Separator --- How testing works When you should get a test Where to get tested What happens when you get a test Testing for workers crossing the Auckland boundary Testing for travellers crossing the Auckland boundary Testing requirements for international travellers
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Testing for workers crossing the Auckland boundary --- Section Separator --- Travel across the boundary is restricted to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Workers who are moving around create more risk of transmission of the virus than people who are staying at home. This additional testing will provide assurance that travel is being done safely. Most employers of workers who need to cross the Auckland boundary for work must have a process in place to allow workers to be tested for COVID-19. This includes allowing workers to undergo testing, medical examination, or both, during their work hours. Most workers who are permitted to cross the Auckland boundary are required to have evidence of a test taken within 7 days before crossing. This excludes border workers currently undergoing regular testing on a 7-day testing cycle. Border workers on a 14-day testing cycle will need to get a test 7 days before they need to cross the boundary. Who does not need to get tested Workers must get tested or be examined in the 7 days before they cross the boundary. Workers must also carry evidence of their reason to cross the boundary, for example work order or employer letter. There are police check points. There is no cost for workers to get tested. Testing is available at community testing sites around Auckland or at GPs, and saliva testing is an option. Workers do not need to stay home or stay away from work while they wait for their test result. Find testing locations in your area | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Find out more about the testing options | health.govt.nz (external link) Most workers crossing the boundary must carry: evidence that they have had a COVID-19 test (they do not need evidence of a negative result — they just need evidence they have been tested), or a medical certificate confirming they do not have COVID-19 symptoms and, for a particular physical or other need, are unable to have a COVID-19 test. A text message that confirms completion of a test will be sent to the worker. This can be shown as evidence. Paper confirmation will also be available from testing centres that do not use the automated system, for example GP practices. This can be shown as evidence of a test. If the worker has had an examination instead of a test, they must have an electronic or paper copy of the medical certificate. You should carry evidence of your purpose of travel and destination. This evidence could be a letter (issued by the relevant business or service) stating: the person named in the letter is providing a specified exempted business or service, or is an enforcement officer, and the destination you are travelling to. Those exempted from boundary surveillance testing requirements include workers carrying out duties in relation to the following businesses or services: Border services (including law enforcement activities related to border services) provided by Immigration New Zealand, the New Zealand Customs Service, Maritime New Zealand, or the Ministry for Primary Industries. The provision of health services (other than pharmacies). Residential centres (including care and protection and youth justice residences), family homes, and group homes (including family group homes and community-based remand centres) that are approved or recognised for the time being by the chief executive of Oranga Tamariki as a place of care or treatment for the purposes of the Oranga Tamariki Act 1989. Within a corrections prison as defined in section 3(1) of the Corrections Act 2004 or any premises managed by or on behalf of the Department of Corrections. Custodial or detention services managed by the New Zealand Police, the Department of Corrections or the Ministry of Justice, or within a courthouse. The administration of sentences and orders by the Department of Corrections or on its behalf. People being transported for the purposes of the Department of Corrections and New Zealand Police fulfilling their purposes and performing their functions and duties. The New Zealand Parole Board . The New Zealand Security Intelligence Service . The Government Communications Security Bureau . The New Zealand Defence Force . The N ew Zealand Police . Fire and Emergency New Zealand . Lifesaving, maritime assistance, search, and rescue services (including training, patrolling, and other work needed to ensure preparedness for those services) provided by the Royal New Zealand Coastguard and Surf Life Saving New Zealand. Civil defence emergency management services provided by the National Emergency Management Agency and Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups. Managed isolation or quarantine (MIQ) services for COVID-19 or to people while they are required to be in isolation or quarantine in accordance with either of the following: the Isolation and Quarantine Order the Maritime Border Order. the Isolation and Quarantine Order the Maritime Border Order. Workers carrying out any business or service referred to in the list above. Parliament and parliamentary staff in relation to parliamentary business. Officers of Parliament in relation to parliamentary business or undertaking their statutory functions. Ministers of the Crown and ministerial staff , in relation to Government business. People who are enforcement officers carrying out their functions and exercising their powers under the Act. --- Section Separator --- Travel across the boundary is restricted to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Workers who are moving around create more risk of transmission of the virus than people who are staying at home. This additional testing will provide assurance that travel is being done safely. Most employers of workers who need to cross the Auckland boundary for work must have a process in place to allow workers to be tested for COVID-19. This includes allowing workers to undergo testing, medical examination, or both, during their work hours. --- Section Separator --- Most workers who are permitted to cross the Auckland boundary are required to have evidence of a test taken within 7 days before crossing. This excludes border workers currently undergoing regular testing on a 7-day testing cycle. Border workers on a 14-day testing cycle will need to get a test 7 days before they need to cross the boundary. Who does not need to get tested --- Section Separator --- Workers must get tested or be examined in the 7 days before they cross the boundary. Workers must also carry evidence of their reason to cross the boundary, for example work order or employer letter. There are police check points. There is no cost for workers to get tested. Testing is available at community testing sites around Auckland or at GPs, and saliva testing is an option. Workers do not need to stay home or stay away from work while they wait for their test result. Find testing locations in your area | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Find out more about the testing options | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most workers crossing the boundary must carry: evidence that they have had a COVID-19 test (they do not need evidence of a negative result — they just need evidence they have been tested), or a medical certificate confirming they do not have COVID-19 symptoms and, for a particular physical or other need, are unable to have a COVID-19 test. A text message that confirms completion of a test will be sent to the worker. This can be shown as evidence. Paper confirmation will also be available from testing centres that do not use the automated system, for example GP practices. This can be shown as evidence of a test. If the worker has had an examination instead of a test, they must have an electronic or paper copy of the medical certificate. You should carry evidence of your purpose of travel and destination. This evidence could be a letter (issued by the relevant business or service) stating: the person named in the letter is providing a specified exempted business or service, or is an enforcement officer, and the destination you are travelling to. --- Section Separator --- Those exempted from boundary surveillance testing requirements include workers carrying out duties in relation to the following businesses or services: Border services (including law enforcement activities related to border services) provided by Immigration New Zealand, the New Zealand Customs Service, Maritime New Zealand, or the Ministry for Primary Industries. The provision of health services (other than pharmacies). Residential centres (including care and protection and youth justice residences), family homes, and group homes (including family group homes and community-based remand centres) that are approved or recognised for the time being by the chief executive of Oranga Tamariki as a place of care or treatment for the purposes of the Oranga Tamariki Act 1989. Within a corrections prison as defined in section 3(1) of the Corrections Act 2004 or any premises managed by or on behalf of the Department of Corrections. Custodial or detention services managed by the New Zealand Police, the Department of Corrections or the Ministry of Justice, or within a courthouse. The administration of sentences and orders by the Department of Corrections or on its behalf. People being transported for the purposes of the Department of Corrections and New Zealand Police fulfilling their purposes and performing their functions and duties. The New Zealand Parole Board . The New Zealand Security Intelligence Service . The Government Communications Security Bureau . The New Zealand Defence Force . The N ew Zealand Police . Fire and Emergency New Zealand . Lifesaving, maritime assistance, search, and rescue services (including training, patrolling, and other work needed to ensure preparedness for those services) provided by the Royal New Zealand Coastguard and Surf Life Saving New Zealand. Civil defence emergency management services provided by the National Emergency Management Agency and Civil Defence Emergency Management Groups. Managed isolation or quarantine (MIQ) services for COVID-19 or to people while they are required to be in isolation or quarantine in accordance with either of the following: the Isolation and Quarantine Order the Maritime Border Order. the Isolation and Quarantine Order the Maritime Border Order. Workers carrying out any business or service referred to in the list above. Parliament and parliamentary staff in relation to parliamentary business. Officers of Parliament in relation to parliamentary business or undertaking their statutory functions. Ministers of the Crown and ministerial staff , in relation to Government business. People who are enforcement officers carrying out their functions and exercising their powers under the Act. --- Section Separator --- How testing works When you should get a test Where to get tested What happens when you get a test Testing for workers crossing the Auckland boundary Testing for travellers crossing the Auckland boundary Testing requirements for international travellers
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing When you should get a test --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test. If you are unsure, a health professional can let you know. Call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. COVID-19 symptoms Check the locations of interest on the Ministry of Health website and follow the instructions on what to do. Locations of interest in New Zealand — health.govt.nz (external link) If you have been at any location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately: isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and isolating. By calling Healthline, people who have been at locations of interest are logged into the contact tracing system. This means you can get your test results back faster. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) Close Contacts Casual and Casual Plus Contacts You do not need to get a COVID-19 test, unless you are asked to by public health officials or you develop COVID-19 symptoms. If you are told to get a test by a health official or fall under mandatory testing, your COVID-19 test is free of charge. For example, if you work at the border or are a contact of a confirmed case. Testing for these purposes is free regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not have to pay for your care if you test positive. Surveillance testing by the business sector, which is outside of mandatory requirements, is not part of the public health response and is not free. You may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test Most workers who need to cross the Auckland/Port Waikato boundary must get tested. Testing of workers when crossing the Auckland boundary From 15 December 2021 to 17 January 2022, you can travel into and out of Auckland for any reason but you must follow some restrictions to leave Auckland. When leaving Auckland, no matter how long you have been inside the boundary: you must be fully vaccinated and have your My Vaccine Pass with you, or you must carry evidence of a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 72 hours before crossing the boundary. Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. Children under 12 years and 3 months do not need to get tested or have a My Vaccine Pass to travel out of Auckland. Testing requirements from 15 December Some transport providers, such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators, may require you to show a your My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding. The test must be taken within 72 hours before your journey. Free rapid antigen tests are available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are unvaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company. Children under 12 years and 3 months do not need to get tested or have a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test. If you are unsure, a health professional can let you know. Call: Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your doctor or nurse, or your iwi health provider. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Check the locations of interest on the Ministry of Health website and follow the instructions on what to do. Locations of interest in New Zealand — health.govt.nz (external link) If you have been at any location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately: isolate at your home or accommodation, and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and isolating. By calling Healthline, people who have been at locations of interest are logged into the contact tracing system. This means you can get your test results back faster. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) Close Contacts Casual and Casual Plus Contacts --- Section Separator --- You do not need to get a COVID-19 test, unless you are asked to by public health officials or you develop COVID-19 symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you are told to get a test by a health official or fall under mandatory testing, your COVID-19 test is free of charge. For example, if you work at the border or are a contact of a confirmed case. Testing for these purposes is free regardless of your citizenship, immigration status, nationality or level of medical insurance coverage. If you are asked to pay for a COVID-19 test, please report it to your district health board or primary health organisation. You will not have to pay for your care if you test positive. Surveillance testing by the business sector, which is outside of mandatory requirements, is not part of the public health response and is not free. You may need to pay for a test if it is to enter another country. Getting a pre-departure COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Most workers who need to cross the Auckland/Port Waikato boundary must get tested. Testing of workers when crossing the Auckland boundary From 15 December 2021 to 17 January 2022, you can travel into and out of Auckland for any reason but you must follow some restrictions to leave Auckland. When leaving Auckland, no matter how long you have been inside the boundary: you must be fully vaccinated and have your My Vaccine Pass with you, or you must carry evidence of a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 72 hours before crossing the boundary. Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. Children under 12 years and 3 months do not need to get tested or have a My Vaccine Pass to travel out of Auckland. Testing requirements from 15 December --- Section Separator --- Some transport providers, such as Air New Zealand and Cook Strait ferry operators, may require you to show a your My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding. The test must be taken within 72 hours before your journey. Free rapid antigen tests are available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are unvaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company. Children under 12 years and 3 months do not need to get tested or have a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- How testing works When you should get a test Where to get tested What happens when you get a test Testing for workers crossing the Auckland boundary Testing for travellers crossing the Auckland boundary Testing requirements for international travellers
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Where to get tested --- Section Separator --- Many community based testing centres will be closed on public holidays. The most important thing to do is to call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or check Healthpoint for opening hours of a community testing centre. Find a COVID-19 testing location | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Healthpoint lists testing locations by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Search for a testing location near you (external link) Northland testing locations (external link) Auckland testing locations (external link) Waitematā testing locations (external link) Waikato testing locations (external link) Whakatāne, Bay of Plenty, Rotorua and Taupō testing locations (external link) Tairāwhiti (Gisborne) testing locations (external link) Hawke’s Bay testing locations (external link) Taranaki testing locations (external link) Whanganui testing locations (external link) MidCentral testing locations (Ōtaki, Levin, Palmerston North, Feilding and Dannevirke) (external link) Hutt Valley testing locations (external link) Wellington and Kāpiti Coast testing locations (external link) Nelson-Marlborough testing locations (external link) West Coast testing locations (external link) Canterbury testing locations (external link) South Canterbury testing locations (external link) Southern testing locations (external link) Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers leaving Auckland who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms. The tests will be also available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company, for example Air New Zealand. Pharmacies offering rapid antigen tests can be found on the Healthpoint website: COVID-19 testing: Supervised rapid antigen testing | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) If you get a positive result, you will need to get a get a follow-up PCR test from your doctor or community testing centre. --- Section Separator --- Many community based testing centres will be closed on public holidays. The most important thing to do is to call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or check Healthpoint for opening hours of a community testing centre. Find a COVID-19 testing location | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Healthpoint lists testing locations by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Search for a testing location near you (external link) --- Section Separator --- Northland testing locations (external link) Auckland testing locations (external link) Waitematā testing locations (external link) Waikato testing locations (external link) Whakatāne, Bay of Plenty, Rotorua and Taupō testing locations (external link) Tairāwhiti (Gisborne) testing locations (external link) Hawke’s Bay testing locations (external link) Taranaki testing locations (external link) Whanganui testing locations (external link) MidCentral testing locations (Ōtaki, Levin, Palmerston North, Feilding and Dannevirke) (external link) Hutt Valley testing locations (external link) Wellington and Kāpiti Coast testing locations (external link) Nelson-Marlborough testing locations (external link) West Coast testing locations (external link) Canterbury testing locations (external link) South Canterbury testing locations (external link) Southern testing locations (external link) --- Section Separator --- Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers leaving Auckland who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms. The tests will be also available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company, for example Air New Zealand. Pharmacies offering rapid antigen tests can be found on the Healthpoint website: COVID-19 testing: Supervised rapid antigen testing | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) If you get a positive result, you will need to get a get a follow-up PCR test from your doctor or community testing centre. --- Section Separator --- How testing works When you should get a test Where to get tested What happens when you get a test Testing for workers crossing the Auckland boundary Testing for travellers crossing the Auckland boundary Testing requirements for international travellers
Home Testing and tracing Locations of interest Check locations of interest and what to do if you have been at one. You may be interested in List of locations of interest What is a Section 70 If your business is a location of interest Map of locations of interest Record your location of interest visit online --- Section Separator --- Locations of interest are places where someone confirmed with COVID-19 has visited. You are a contact if you have been at a location of interest at the specified time. Check the locations of interest and follow the health advice of the Ministry of Health. Locations of interest in New Zealand | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have been at any location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately isolate at your home or accommodation and either: call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice on testing and isolating, or record your visit to a location of interest online. Record your visit online (external link) If you record your visit online, you do not need to call Healthline. Contact tracers will call or email you and let you know what you need to do. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) Close Contacts Casual and Casual Plus Contacts --- Section Separator --- If you live with someone who has been at a location of interest at the date and times specified you must immediately: isolate at your home or accommodation continue isolating until the person who was at a location of interest gets a negative test result at day 5. If you have not had any contact with the person who was at the location of interest, you can stop isolating as soon as they have a negative result. Members of the household who were not at a location of interest can only leave home to exercise. They can exercise while waiting for the results of their test if they keep 2 metres apart from others. People in the household are not permitted to go to the supermarket or visit other essential services. We encourage you to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to drop off groceries and other essential supplies to you. If you work in a managed isolation or quarantine facility, or you provide an essential health service, you can leave home to go to work earlier than day 5. You must meet other criteria. These instructions are outlined in section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 gives special powers to a medical officer of health to prevent the outbreak or spread of any infectious disease. A Section 70 order is issued to make sure you understand it is very important that you follow the advice given by public health units. A Section 70 order allows a medical officer of health to require those in the order to: meet public health requirements undergo testing isolate until they get a test result. People must follow the order immediately. Find out more about Section 70 orders | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Exposure events sometimes do not need to be made public, because everybody there is known and can be followed up. There are many more exposure events than there are locations of interest, and not all exposure events become locations of interest. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has guidance to support New Zealand businesses that have been identified as a location of interest after a visit by a confirmed or probable COVID-19 case. In most cases, a public health official will call and talk you through what this means for your business. However, there may be some occasions, for example outside business hours, when it may not be possible to contact you immediately. Guidance for businesses | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) New Zealand is in the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights. This new approach to COVID-19 will introduce more freedoms for vaccinated New Zealanders. --- Section Separator --- 15 December — People travelling out of Auckland to other parts of the country will need to be fully vaccinated, or have a negative COVID-19 test administered no more than 72 hours before departure. This requirement will be in place until 17 January 2022. --- Section Separator --- The framework will continue to protect New Zealanders, while also providing more certainty and new opportunities. It minimises the impact and provides protection from COVID-19 through 3 settings - Green, Orange and Red. Minimisation means we are aiming to keep the spread of COVID-19 and hospitilisations at as low a level as possible. Outbreaks will be contained and controlled, and if practical, stamped out. There will likely be some level of cases in the community on an ongoing basis. Protection means that we will protect people from the virus, with vaccination, infection prevention and control, and general public health measures (for example contact tracing, case management and testing). Response will also focus on minimising significant health impacts through treatment and support. We will also protect people’s health, by ensuring we are not letting cases go to the point where the impacts have flow-on effects to impact other health services. The framework is intended to give as much certainty and stability as possible for people and businesses, reducing the need for widespread lockdowns. --- Section Separator --- A high vaccination rate is a key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19. Getting vaccinated reduces the likeliness of getting really sick, going to hospital or passing COVID-19 on to others. There are places where vaccination for workers is required, for example within the border, health, disability, education sectors, and at hospitality, events, gyms and close-proximity businesses. It is also required for businesses that are using My Vaccine Pass for their customers. The vaccination assessment tool is a legal framework to help businesses make decisions about vaccinations in the workplace. My Vaccine Pass is the official record of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use in Aotearoa New Zealand. Specified limits are based on 1 metre distancing, which means 1 metre square of space for each person (the number of people is limited by the space available). It does not mean people must remain 1 metre apart from others. Capacity limits include everyone in a defined space, excluding workers (paid and unpaid). A group of people that has people with and without My Vaccine Pass (excluding children), must follow the lower capacity limit specified for no My Vaccine Pass. QR codes issued by the NZ Government legally must be displayed in workplaces and on public transport to enable the use of the NZ COVID Tracer app for contact tracing. Under the framework localised lockdowns and protections can be used to control high rates of transmission. The restrictions implemented will consider specific circumstances and the nature of the public health response. They could include: stay at home orders closure of premises, for example schools and retail restrictions on gatherings restrictions on movement in and out of the lockdown area. If your business, service, or activity is not captured specifically in the Framework you must follow the public health measures specified in the general settings. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Protection Framework summary table [PDF, 67 KB] COVID-19 Protection Framework detailed table [PDF, 218 KB]
Home Traffic lights Life at Green At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Green, everything can be open. Remember — being vaccinated will give you greater protection. Many businesses and venues can choose to open with no restrictions on numbers if they follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there will be limits on the number of people who can be in a venue at one time. --- Section Separator --- You will be legally required to provide your My Vaccine Pass to enter places that have vaccination requirements in place under the traffic lights. This may include hospitality venues, events, gatherings and gyms. You cannot be asked to provide your My Vaccine Pass to access basic needs services, such as supermarkets, public transport, and essential health care. My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits such as at home, places of worship, and marae can go ahead at Green. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Green. Businesses and workplaces can open at Green with no restrictions. Hospitality venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Green, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Green. At Green, all education facilities including early childhood centres, schools, kura and tertiary providers are open. You can move house and buy or sell your home at Green. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits such as at home, places of worship, and marae can go ahead at Green. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Green. Businesses and workplaces can open at Green with no restrictions. Hospitality venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Green, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Green. At Green, all education facilities including early childhood centres, schools, kura and tertiary providers are open. You can move house and buy or sell your home at Green. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Green with no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Workplaces are open at Green. Some jobs require staff to be vaccinated. These include: border and managed isolation and quarantine workers health and disability workers education sector workers prison workers New Zealand Police (sworn members, recruits and authorised officers) New Zealand Defence Force (Armed Forces and civilian staff). Workers in businesses covered by the My Vaccine Pass mandate need to be vaccinated. This applies to food and drink services (excluding businesses that operate solely as takeaways), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. Workers in these businesses must be fully vaccinated, even if the business chooses not to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a business is only offering takeaway food and drink, then workers do not need to be vaccinated. Vaccine information for businesses My Vaccine Pass mandate | business.govt.nz (external link) Vaccination assessment tool | business.govt.nz (external link) Guidance for employers and employees | employment.govt.nz (external link) Retail businesses and workplaces can choose whether they require My Vaccine Pass for customers and visitors. If they do not, they may have to follow some restrictions. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. They can also switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring My Vaccine Pass. This could happen in places such as cafes where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a business chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms must be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, must be cleaned between groups everyone, both staff and visitors, must be told what the vaccine pass requirements are. Advice for businesses on checking and verifying My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you enter a business as a visitor or customer, follow the vaccine pass requirements at the venue. You may be required to show your My Vaccine Pass to access the service. Shopping at Green Close-proximity businesses at Green Hospitality at Green Scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in the community. --- Section Separator --- If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, or you are self-isolating because you have tested positive for COVID-19, your employer can apply for financial support for you so you can continue to get paid. Financial support --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information: Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Education At Green, all education facilities including early childhood centres, schools, kura and tertiary providers are open. --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura are open at Green for all tamariki (children). Students can attend tertiary education in person at Green. --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura are open at Green for all tamariki (children). Students can attend tertiary education in person at Green.
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Education Early learning, schools and kura Early learning services, schools and kura are open at Green for all tamariki (children). --- Section Separator --- At Green, early learning centres, kōhanga reo, schools and kura can open with public health measures in place, for example, extra cleaning and keeping records of visitors to help with contact tracing. School events or activities like performances, cultural events, camps, sports practices, and interschool events can go ahead. At Green, playgroups can open if parents and staff are fully vaccinated. Parents and staff will be required to show their My Vaccine Pass when they are on site. If a playgroup chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, services will be restricted. Staff, visitors and parents and caregivers must stay 1 metre apart. Staff working at the playgroup must wear a face covering. Playgroups that operate on a school or early learning site or are run by a home-based childcare provider must be vaccinated under the vaccination order and keep a vaccine register. Some OSCAR staff must be fully vaccinated. If staff are not fully vaccinated, it is up to the OSCAR programme provider to decide if they want to continue operating at Green, depending on public health advice. --- Section Separator --- Face coverings are encouraged for all students indoors at school — but they are not a requirement. Face coverings are also encouraged when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We encourage parents, caregivers and other adult visitors to wear a face covering when visiting early childhood centres, schools and kura. Wearing a face covering --- Section Separator --- Children and parents or caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: licensed early childhood education services and registered primary and secondary schools, including private providers school hostels school transport services for all students out of school care and recreation (OSCAR) programmes secondary students who attend a tertiary organisation for their learning. At education sites, some people must be fully vaccinated to have contact with children and students. This includes: teachers staff home-based educators every person aged 12 years and 3 months and over in the home where licensed home-based education and care takes place for children under 6 years old support people in schools and early learning centres, including volunteers teacher aides administration and maintenance staff contractors. An on-site register will be kept. A small number of staff and teachers are able to apply for an exemption. Education sector vaccinations --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an early learning service, school or kura, the early learning service or school will work the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) Advice for schools and kura with a confirmed case of COVID-19 | education.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are sick, waiting for your COVID-19 test results or have been asked to self-isolate you should stay home, and not go to your educational facility. Your school, kura, or tertiary facility should provide distance learning options if you need to stay home. Talk to your education provider if you or your child needs to learn from home. --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Green --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for schools and kura | education.govt.nz. (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Education Tertiary education Students can attend tertiary education in person at Green. --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education facilities can open, with public health measures, such as wearing face coverings encouraged indoors. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials, and meetings in person. Your tertiary provider may choose to require My Vaccine Pass for you to attend in-person learning (unless an exemption applies). Check with your provider about their requirements. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation can open. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass for residents and staff. Check with your provider about their requirements. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Accommodation at Green Travel at Green --- Section Separator --- Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. You must wear one on flights at Green. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- If you are sick, waiting for your COVID-19 test results or have been asked to self-isolate you should stay home, and not go to your educational facility. Your school, kura, or tertiary facility should provide distance learning options if you need to stay home. Talk to your education provider if you or your child needs to learn from home. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education providers can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary education providers | education.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Events and public facilities Events Indoor and outdoor events can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Examples are: auctions cinemas stadiums concert venues conferences commercial recreational activities sporting events private galleries Advice on community sporting events If an event organiser chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass at the venue. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. This applies to events held at both indoor and outdoor venues. You can serve food and drink, and attendees do not need to be seated at table to eat or drink. You can travel anywhere to attend an event. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you will not be allowed to attend. If an event organiser chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, they can only have 100 people in a single defined space. Attendees must keep 1 metre apart. This applies to both indoor and outdoor events. If an event organiser is open to people with and without My Vaccine Pass, everyone must be seated at a table to eat and drink. You can move around when not eating or drinking. Customers at a cinema, theatre or stadium do not have to be seated at a table and are able to eat drink from their seats. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community gatherings must follow the gathering guidelines. They are gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration. Examples are: street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs. Gatherings at Green --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Events and public facilities Public facilities Public facilities can open at Green with no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- All public facilities can open at Green. Examples of public facilities include: libraries public galleries museums zoos swimming pools, and recreation centres. Some public facilities may choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show your My Vaccine Pass at the venue. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Gatherings and visits Gatherings and visits such as at home, places of worship, and marae can go ahead at Green. --- Section Separator --- At Green, you can have friends and whānau visit your house, and host parties and gatherings. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. Marae can open at kākāriki (green) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Green. --- Section Separator --- At Green, you can have friends and whānau visit your house, and host parties and gatherings. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. Marae can open at kākāriki (green) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Green.
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Gatherings and visits Funerals and tangihanga Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Green with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. --- Section Separator --- Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Green. It is up to the staff and the whānau or family to agree if the funeral or tangihanga is only open to people with My Vaccine Pass or to a mix of people with or without My Vaccine Pass. If everyone has My Vaccine Pass, there is no limit to the number of people who can attend, both indoors and outdoors. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes marae churches, mosques and other faith-based places of worship hired venues or facilities private homes. You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga or burial. Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). There is no limit to how many people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you are fully vaccinated. This can include: washing dressing shrouding other preparations for cremation or burial. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Organisers of the funeral or tangihanga must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- If staff and whānau choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, funerals and tangihanga are limited to 100 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children under 12, but not staff. You can serve food and drink. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements — they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. Marae can choose whether to allow people without My Vaccine Pass to attend a tangihanga. If people without My Vaccine Pass are allowed, tangihanga are limited to 100 people. Multiple groups of 100 people can attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae can also choose to switch between allowing people with and without My Vaccine Pass to attend. Groups cannot be on the marae at the same time. For example, 100 people who do not have My Vaccine Pass could attend a tangihanga in the morning. After cleaning, another group of 100 people with My Vaccine Pass could attend the tangihanga later in the day. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Green Up to 100 people can view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). The limit can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff who are attending. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Organisers of the funeral or tangihanga must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility, and all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, places of worship or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both staff and visitors, must be told what the My Vaccine Pass requirements are — whether My Vaccine Pass is or is not required. --- Section Separator --- There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: not kiss or touch the body wash your hands thoroughly after the viewing physically distance from others of at least 1 metre. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings At Green, you can have friends and whānau visit your house, and host parties and gatherings. --- Section Separator --- Under the traffic light system, household bubbles do not exist. Examples of gatherings that can go ahead at Green include: catching up with friends and whānau weddings and civil union ceremonies most faith-based gatherings get-togethers and parties at your home club functions social sports street parades free public concerts in a park community fair funerals and tangihanga most gatherings at marae. Visiting friends and whānau at Green Funerals and tangihanga at Green Gatherings at a marae at Green Community and social sport at Green --- Section Separator --- If a gathering chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes workers. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. This applies to gatherings at your home, and gatherings at other venues. This also applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. --- Section Separator --- If a venue for a gathering chooses not to operate with vaccine pass requirements: At a gathering at your home, there can be up to 100 people. At gatherings held at other venues, there can be up to 100 people based on 1-metre physical distancing in a single defined space at the venue at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. It includes children under 12, but does not include staff. --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering, with no extra requirements. If your gathering is at a hospitality venue, and you have hired the entire venue for your gathering, there are no extra requirements for serving food and drink. If you are unsure about what the requirements for your group might be, talk to the hospitality business to clarify. Advice for hospitality venues at Green --- Section Separator --- Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, places of worship or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both staff and visitors, must be told what the My Vaccine Pass requirements are — whether My Vaccine Pass is or is not required. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Gatherings and visits Visiting friends and whānau You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Green. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights), household bubbles do not exist. Examples include: catching up with friends and whānau at their home or your home parties and other gatherings at their home or your home. Follow the advice for private gatherings. Private gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep their staff and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in prison with restrictions. Visitors to prisoners must have had at least one COVID-19 vaccine dose. Only people with a My Vaccine Pass will be allowed to visit. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You will need to show a printed copy of your My Vaccine Pass to prison staff on arrival. Prison sites may also have other public health measures in place, for example, you may be required to complete a health or temperature check. Check with the prison site before you visit. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Hospitality venues Hospitality venues such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Green with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants (excluding takeaway-only businesses) and nightclubs, can open at Green with no restrictions if they follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a hospitality venue chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes delivery drivers, and people who are picking up their own takeaway orders. There are no limits on the number of people you can drink or dine with. You do not have to be seated to be served. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Food and beverage services that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Green Businesses that offer food and drink on site, as well as a takeaway option for customers without My Vaccine Pass, will need to operate as a hospitality venue. At these businesses, if you do not have My Vaccine Pass you must collect your takeaways in a contactless way, and must not go inside. You must scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If a hospitality venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements they must follow these restrictions. There can be up to 100 people, based on 1-metre distancing, in a single defined space at the venue at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children, but not staff. You will have to be seated and separated from other groups. This means you must remain seated at your table unless you are entering or leaving the venue, using the bathroom or paying for your meal. Dance floors are closed. Food and beverage services that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Green You must scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Shopping and services Shopping Shops and retail outlets can open at Green with no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- All shops and services, including outdoor markets, banks and takeaway-only businesses, can operate at Green. Shops can choose whether they operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show your My Vaccine Pass. There are no limits on the number of people that can be inside. Everyone will always be able to access essential services like food, regardless of their vaccination status. Access to basic need services If a retail shop provides a close-proximity service, like make-up application or clothes fittings, then they need to follow advice for close-proximity businesses. The rest of the store only needs to follow the retail rules. Close-proximity businesses at Green Scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Advice for retailers | business.govt.nz. (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Travel and accommodation Accommodation Accommodation can open at Green with no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- All accommodation services can open. This includes: hotels and motels boarding houses campgrounds backpackers seasonal worker accommodation AirBnB properties tertiary accommodation Accomodation providers can open to people with and without a My Vaccine Pass, with no restrictions. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an accommodation facility, follow the relevant advice: Events at Green Gatherings at Green Everyone over the age of 12 must have a My Vaccine Pass to stay in a DOC hut or campsite. Visitors will be asked about their vaccination status when they book a DOC hut or campsite. Hut wardens may also carry out spot checks to make sure everyone has My Vaccine Pass. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you can still use the DOC tracks and toilets, but you will not be allowed to stay overnight. Staying in a DOC hut or campsite | doc.govt.nz (external link) Cafes, bars and restaurants inside accomodation venues should follow the rules for hospitality businesses. Hospitality venues at Green --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Green Travel and accommodation Travel You can travel anywhere at Green, but you must wear a face covering on flights. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at any traffic light setting. Do not travel if you are unwell. Some transport providers may ask you to show your My Vaccine Pass or provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test. Check with the operator before travelling. If you are travelling into a different setting area, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. There are no physical distancing requirements on transport services or in airports, train stations or bus terminals. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to show a vaccine pass to use public transport, as these services are needed to access services for basic needs such as food and healthcare. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, at bus stops or train stations. You are not required to wear a face covering on public transport. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Some transport providers, such as Air New Zealand, KiwiRail and Cook Strait ferry operators, may require you to show a vaccine pass or negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. The test must be taken within 72 hours before your journey. Check with the operator what its My Vaccine Pass or testing requirements are before you travel. Free rapid antigen tests will be available at community pharmacies from 11:59pm 14 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers who are: over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and are from any part of New Zealand, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company. Find a community pharmacy or testing centre (external link) You must wear a face covering on flights. We encourage you to wear a face covering in the terminal. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Between 15 December 2021 and 17 January 2022, you can travel into and out of Auckland for any reason but you must follow some restrictions to leave Auckland. When leaving Auckland, no matter how long you have been inside the boundary: you must have your My Vaccine Pass with you, or you must carry evidence of a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 72 hours before crossing the boundary. You do not need to follow these requirements: if you are aged under 12 years and 3 months if you are transiting through Auckland without stopping when going into Auckland. Learn more about travel across the Auckland boundary --- Section Separator --- While vaccination is highly effective, it is still possible to get COVID-19. You may get it while you are away from home, even if you are following the rules. You should prepare for what you may need to do if this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- If you have been told to self-isolate because of COVID-19, you must not travel. What to do if you are told to self-isolate If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, you must not travel. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Transport operators can find more information: Advice for transport operators about COVID-19 Protection Framework | transport.govt.nz (external link) Advice for transport, freight and logistics | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Orange, people can continue to do everyday activities. There are restrictions to limit the spread of the virus and protect vulnerable people. But you can go to work, school, gyms, places of worship, restaurants, and many more places. Most businesses can open with no restrictions on numbers if they choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, and only allow people with My Vaccine Pass to enter. If they choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, there will be limits on the number of people who can be in a venue at one time. --- Section Separator --- You will be legally required to provide your My Vaccine Pass to enter places that have vaccination requirements in place under the traffic lights. This may include hospitality venues, events, gatherings and gyms. You cannot be asked to provide your My Vaccine Pass to access basic needs services, such as supermarkets, public transport, and essential health care. My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, marae and sport locations, can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange with some restrictions. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange, with restrictions. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face covering. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, marae and sport locations, can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange with some restrictions. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange, with restrictions. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face covering. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Workplaces are open at Orange. Employees should talk to their employers about working at Orange. Most businesses and workplaces can choose whether they check My Vaccine Pass for customers and visitors. If they do not, they may have to follow some restrictions. They can also switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring My Vaccine Pass. This could happen in places such as funeral homes where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a business chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms must be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, must be cleaned between groups everyone, both staff and visitors, must be told what the vaccine pass requirements are—whether it is for people with My Vaccine Pass, or a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. Advice for businesses on checking and verifying My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate need to be vaccinated. This applies to food and drink services (excluding takeaway-only businesses), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. Workers in these businesses must be fully vaccinated, even if the business chooses not to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a business is only offering takeaway food and drink, then workers do not need to be vaccinated. Vaccine information for businesses --- Section Separator --- If you enter a business as a visitor or customer, follow the My Vaccine Pass requirements at the venue. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass, either by looking at it, or scanning the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Businesses that are subject to My Vaccine Pass requirements are expected to check My Vaccine Pass for people on their premises, including workers. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated Shopping at Orange Close-proximity businesses at Orange Hospitality at Orange Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face covering: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operate by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies public-facing workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information: Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Education Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face covering. --- Section Separator --- Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Orange, and must follow some public health measures. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Orange, and must follow some public health measures. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Orange.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Education Early learning and schools Children can attend early learning services, playgroups and schools at Orange, and must follow some public health measures. --- Section Separator --- Certified playgroups can open with My Vaccine Pass requirements, or by following the rules for close-proximity businesses. That means you must show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you should not enter the venue as you are not allowed to be there. Playgroups that operate on a school or early learning site or are run by a home-based childcare provider must be vaccinated under the vaccination order and keep a vaccine register. My Vaccine Pass Get Vaccinated Close-proximity businesses --- Section Separator --- All licensed early learning services can open with public health measures in places. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face coverings on site. Parents and visitors are encouraged to maintain 1-metre distancing from other adults while on site, for example to settle your child, or to view a service. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face coverings are encouraged, but not required, when inside at school. All ākonga aged 12 and up must wear face coverings on public transport and school transport. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face coverings on site. You do not need to wear a face covering when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We strongly encourage you to. A small number of staff, teachers and students are able to apply for an exemption. Wearing a face covering --- Section Separator --- Children and parents or caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: licensed early childhood education services and registered primary and secondary schools, including private providers school hostels school transport services for all students out of school care and recreation (OSCAR) programmes secondary students who attend a tertiary organisation for their learning. At education sites, some people must be fully vaccinated to have contact with children and students. This includes: teachers staff home-based educators every person aged 12 years and 3 months and over in the home where licensed home-based education and care takes place for children under 6 years old support people in schools and early learning centres, including volunteers teacher aides administration and maintenance staff contractors. An on-site register will be kept. A small number of staff and teachers are able to apply for an exemption. Education sector vaccinations --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an early learning service, school or kura, the early learning service or school will work the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) Advice for schools and kura with a confirmed case of COVID-19 | education.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are sick, waiting for your COVID-19 test results or have been asked to self-isolate you should stay home, and not go to your educational facility. Your school, kura, or tertiary facility should provide distance learning options if you need to stay home. Talk to your education provider if you or your child needs to learn from home. --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students are encouraged to wear face coverings in communal areas, and keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Orange --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for schools and kura | education.govt.nz. (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Education Tertiary education Students can attend tertiary education in person at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education facilities can open, with public health measures, such as wearing face coverings strongly recommended. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials, and meetings in person. Your tertiary provider may choose to require My Vaccine Pass for you to attend in-person learning (unless an exemption applies). Check with your provider about their requirements. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If you are sick, waiting for your COVID-19 test results or have been asked to self-isolate you should stay home, and not go to your educational facility. Your school, kura, or tertiary facility should provide distance learning options if you need to stay home. Talk to your education provider if you or your child needs to learn from home. --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation can open. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass for residents and staff. Check with your provider about their requirements. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Orange --- Section Separator --- Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face covering in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face covering everywhere else. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccinations are free. If you need help with costs to get to a vaccination centre, talk to StudyLink about how they can help you. COVID-19 vaccination travel | studylink.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education providers can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary education providers | education.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Events and public facilities Events Events can go ahead at Orange, although some may have restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Orange with My Vaccine Pass. Examples are: auctions cinemas concert venues conferences commercial recreational activities private galleries sporting events stadiums. If an event organiser chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend. Events cannot go ahead if My Vaccine Pass requirements are not followed. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration must follow the rules for gatherings. Examples are: street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs. Gatherings at Orange --- Section Separator --- Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face covering in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face covering everywhere else. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Events and public facilities Public facilities Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Orange with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- There is no limit on how many people can be inside a public facility. Capacity limits are based on 1-metre distancing. Examples of public facilities include: libraries public galleries museums zoos swimming pools recreation centres. Some public facilities may choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show My Vaccine Pass at the facilities. Check before you go. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face covering at public facilities, excluding swimming pools. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can find more information at business.govt.nz. Public facilities guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Local government can find more information at dia.govt.nz. COVID-19 Local Government Response Update | dia.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings and visits Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can have a gathering at Orange, like meeting friends, holding a wedding and attending a place of worship, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Orange with no restrictions if everyone attending has My Vaccine Pass. Marae can open at Karaka (Orange) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can have a gathering at Orange, like meeting friends, holding a wedding and attending a place of worship, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Orange with no restrictions if everyone attending has My Vaccine Pass. Marae can open at Karaka (Orange) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Orange.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings and visits Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Orange, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. --- Section Separator --- Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Orange. It is up to the staff and the whānau or family to agree if the funeral or tangihanga is only open to people with My Vaccine Pass or to a mix of people with or without My Vaccine Pass. If everyone has My Vaccine Pass, there is no limit to the number of people who can attend, both indoors and outdoors. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes marae churches, mosques and other faith-based places of worship hired venues or facilities private homes. You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga or burial. You can serve food and drink. Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku. Up to 100 people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone has My Vaccine Pass. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you have My Vaccine Pass. This can include: washing dressing shrouding other preparations for cremation or burial. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If a venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, funerals and tangihanga are limited to 50 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children under 12, but not staff. You can serve food and drink. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements — they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. Marae can choose whether to allow people without My Vaccine Pass to attend a tangihanga. If people without My Vaccine Pass are allowed, tangihanga are limited to 50 people. Multiple groups of 50 people can attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae can also choose to switch between allowing people with and without My Vaccine Pass to attend. Groups cannot be on the marae at the same time. For example, 50 people who do not have My Vaccine Pass could attend a tangihanga in the morning. After cleaning, a group of 100 people with My Vaccine Pass could attend the tangihanga later in the day. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Orange Up to 50 people can view the tūpāpaku. The limit can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff who are attending. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility, and all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. Advice for funeral directors and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: not kiss or touch the body wash your hands thoroughly after the viewing physically distance from others of at least 1 metre. --- Section Separator --- Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face coverings. We encourage you to wear a face covering whenever you leave your home. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, places of worship or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both staff and visitors, must be told what the My Vaccine Pass requirements are — whether My Vaccine Pass is or is not required. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings and visits Marae at Orange — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Marae can open at Karaka (Orange) with no restrictions if everyone is fully vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- At Karaka , gatherings at marae can go ahead. It is up to the leaders of the marae to decide whether: they want to allow gatherings people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass can use the marae or attend gatherings manuhiri (visitors to the marae) need to wear a face covering. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. Workers and volunteers at marae must wear a face covering. Guidelines for marae to operate safely under the traffic light system [PDF, 5.7 MB] Summary of guidelines for marae [PDF, 53 KB] --- Section Separator --- If a marae chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, you will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass at the marae. There is no limit to the number of people who can be on a marae at a time. In practice this might look like 40 people in the wharenui, 80 people in the wharekai including ringawera, 10 in the ablution area and 20 people on the ātea. Whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the number limits on marae. Tamariki under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass, but they are included in number counts where restrictions apply. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. Public and private gatherings at Orange Funerals and tangihanga at Orange If a marae chooses to follow vaccine pass requirements, they must check vaccine passes for everyone on the marae. The NZ Pass Verifier is a free app that marae can use to verify My Vaccine Passes. At large gatherings, marae can choose to spot check vaccine passes if verifying every My Vaccine Pass is difficult. Download the NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) It is up to manuhiri to present their My Vaccine Pass on entry. Marae are not required to check ID, but they can request it. Marae should make reasonable efforts to ID tamariki under 12 years and 3 months. This might include asking tamariki their age, date of birth or year at school. When you are ready to check My Vaccine Pass for your manuhiri, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters --- Section Separator --- If a marae chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, there can be up to 50 people on the marae at a time — as long as groups who are fully vaccinated do not mix. In practice this might look like 40 people in the wharenui, 5 people in the wharekai including ringawera and 5 people on the ātea. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. --- Section Separator --- You can serve kai. Decisions about how to serve kai will be made by Marae Kōmiti  — marae may choose to continue using options like takeaway lunches or eating outside, particularly if gatherings are a mixture of vaccinated and non-vaccinated people. People serving or handling kai must wear a face covering. --- Section Separator --- Overnight stays are permitted on marae. The same rules apply as day time visits. --- Section Separator --- Marae can choose to require vaccine passes or not. You cannot change mid-gathering. If any member of the whānau pani, paepae, taumata or ringawera is not fully vaccinated, gathering restrictions will apply as if My Vaccine Pass is not being used. If a marae chooses to allow people who do not have a My Vaccine Pass to attend gatherings, marae must make sure: there is no intermingling of ope rooms are cleaned in between groups whānau pani, paepae, taumata, ringawera and manuhiri are told whether they are attending a gathering of people with My Vaccine Passes or a whether it is for people with My Vaccine Pass, or a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Marae often have large groups of people visiting and gathering together. There are some simple things marae can do to keep whānau safe: Display your NZ COVID Tracer QR code and encourage manuhiri to scan in. Clean surfaces and rooms in between groups. Ask people with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay home. Modify tikanga that involves close contact — for example hongi and harirū.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings You can have a gathering at Orange, like meeting friends, holding a wedding and attending places of worship, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can gather with anyone at Orange, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. Under the traffic light system, household bubbles do not exist. Examples of gatherings that can go ahead at Orange include: catching up with friends and whānau weddings and civil union ceremonies most faith-based gatherings get-togethers and parties at your home or private dwelling club functions social sports street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs funerals and tangihanga most gatherings at marae. More information about funerals and tangihanga at Orange More information about marae at Orange --- Section Separator --- If a gathering chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes workers. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You will be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. There is no limit to how many people can be at the venue. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If a venue for a gathering chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements: At a gathering at your home, there can be up to 50 people. At gatherings held at other venues, there can be up to 50 people based on 1-metre physical distancing in a single defined space at the venue at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. The limit includes children. It does not include staff. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Some religious rituals or practices need people to be close to each other — for example, a christening. Try to keep the time spent in close contact to a minimum. Encourage contactless donations instead of a cash collection box. You can have refreshments after a service, but people should not share drinks, cups, plates, cutlery or other items. You do not have to follow the advice for hospitality at any traffic light setting. Places of worship should display posters or signage indicating they will be asking people to show their My Vaccine Pass to enter. Consider offering online services so people who cannot attend in person can participate. This could be suitable for faith-based gatherings. Singing, for example, choirs and other types of performance, can go ahead. Performers do not need to wear a face covering. Clean and sanitise musical instruments thoroughly before and after use. Guidelines for places of worship [PDF, 306 KB] --- Section Separator --- Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, places of worship or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both staff and visitors, must be told what the My Vaccine Pass requirements are — whether My Vaccine Pass is or is not required. --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering. If you have exclusive use of a hospitality venue for your gathering, you do not need to follow the hospitality rules for the service of food and drink. --- Section Separator --- Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face covering: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operate by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies public-facing workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings and visits Visiting friends and whānau You can visit friends and whānau in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights), household bubbles do not exist. Examples include: catching up with friends and whānau at their home or your home parties and other gatherings at their home or your home. Follow the advice for private gatherings. Private gatherings at Orange --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) You must wear a face covering when visiting an aged care facility. Wear a face covering Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep their staff and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. You must wear a face covering when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Wear a face covering Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Health professionals can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Information for health professionals | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in prison with restrictions. Visitors to prisoners must have had at least one COVID-19 vaccine dose. Only people with a My Vaccine Pass will be allowed to visit. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You will need to show a printed copy of your My Vaccine Pass to prison staff on arrival. Prison sites may also have other public health measures in place, for example, you may be required to complete a health or temperature check. Check with the prison site before you visit. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face covering in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face covering everywhere else. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Hospitality venues Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange with no restrictions if everyone has a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants (excluding takeaway-only businesses) and nightclubs, can open at Orange with no restrictions if they follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a hospitality venue chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes delivery drivers, and people who are picking up their own takeaway orders. There are no limits on the number of people who can be at the venue. You do not have to be seated to be served. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Food and beverage services that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Orange Businesses that offer food and drink on site, as well as a takeaway option for customers without My Vaccine Pass, will need to operate as a hospitality venue. At these businesses, if you do not have My Vaccine Pass you must collect your takeaways in a contactless way, and must not go inside. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If a hospitality venue chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, it can open for takeaway only and should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Orange Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face covering: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operate by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies public-facing workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Shopping and services Close-proximity businesses Close-proximity businesses can open at Orange, with vaccine passes and restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can visit a close-proximity business at Orange if you have a My Vaccine Pass. There is no limit to how many people can be present. Examples are: barbers hairdressers beauty salons driving instructors massage therapists. --- Section Separator --- If a close-proximity business chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with a My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Close-proximity business cannot open if they choose not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. --- Section Separator --- Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face covering: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operate by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies public-facing workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Shopping and services Shopping at Orange Shops and retail outlets can open at Orange with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Shops, including outdoor markets, banks and takeaway-only businesses, can open with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing. Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, though this will not affect their capacity limits. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter the shop. You must wear a face covering if you are visiting a shop. Everyone will always be able to access basic needs like food. Access to basic needs at Orange If you are a close-proximity service within a retail setting, for example a make-up artist within a makeup store, then you must follow the close-proximity rules. The rest of the retail store only needs to follow the retail rules. Close-proximity businesses at Orange Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places where you must wear a face covering: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operate by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies public-facing workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers where it is impractical) are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Advice for retailers | business.govt.nz. (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Travel and accommodation Accommodation Accommodation can open at Orange without restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Accommodation can open at Orange. There are no capacity limits. Some accommodation may choose to require My Vaccine Pass. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the accommodation. This includes: hotels and motels boarding houses backpackers campgrounds seasonal worker accommodation AirBnB properties tertiary accommodation. It does not include private residences. If you are holding an event or a gathering at accommodation, follow the relevant advice: Events at Orange Gatherings at Orange Everyone over the age of 12 must have a My Vaccine Pass to stay in a DOC hut or campsite. Visitors will be asked about their vaccination status when they book a DOC hut or campsite. Hut wardens may also carry out spot checks to make sure everyone has My Vaccine Pass. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you can still use the DOC tracks and toilets, but you will not be allowed to stay overnight. Staying in a DOC hut or campsite | doc.govt.nz (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If the accommodation service contains a hospitality venue, they need to follow advice for hospitality services. Hospitality at Orange --- Section Separator --- Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange you must wear a face covering in retail outlets and on public transport. We strongly encourage you wear a face covering everywhere else. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Travel and accommodation Travel You can travel anywhere for any reason at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Between 15 December 2021 and 17 January 2022, you can travel into and out of Auckland for any reason but you must follow some restrictions to leave Auckland. When leaving Auckland, no matter how long you have been inside the boundary: you must have your My Vaccine Pass with you, or you must carry evidence of a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 72 hours before crossing the boundary. You do not need to follow these requirements: if you are aged under 12 years and 3 months if you are transiting through Auckland without stopping when going into Auckland. Learn more about travel across the Auckland boundary --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at any traffic light setting. There are no boundaries under the traffic lights, but there are temporary restrictions for travelling out of Auckland, and into Northland. You can travel for any reason. Do not travel if you are unwell. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test, unless you are travelling with some transport providers Airlines and Cook Strait ferries If you are travelling into a different setting area, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. There are no physical distancing requirements on transport services or in airports, train stations or bus terminals. Travel at Red --- Section Separator --- If you have been told to self-isolate because of COVID-19, you must not travel. What to do if you are told to self-isolate If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, you must not travel. --- Section Separator --- While vaccination is highly effective, it is still possible to get COVID-19. You may get it while you are away from home, even if you are following the rules. You should prepare for what you may need to do if this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Some transport providers, such as Air New Zealand, KiwiRail and Cook Strait ferry operators, may require you to show a My Vaccine Pass or negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. The test must be taken no more than 72 hours before your journey. Check with the operator what its My Vaccine Pass or testing requirements are before you travel. Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are unvaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company. More information about free rapid antigen testing You must wear a face covering: on flights on Cook Strait ferries at arrival and departure points, for example airports Face coverings are not required when in designated carriages on specified Kiwirail services. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to show a vaccine pass to use public transport, as these services are needed to access services for basic needs such as food and healthcare. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, at bus stops or train stations. You must wear a face covering: on public transport at arrival and departure points, for example airports, train stations and bus stops Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contract tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face covering: in taxis in ride-share vehicles We recommend you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Transport operators can find more information: Advice for transport operators about COVID-19 Protection Framework | transport.govt.nz (external link) Advice for transport, freight and logistics | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- There are restrictions on where we can go at Red. But there are also everyday things that everyone can do. You can meet friends and whānau inside and outside, go shopping, access healthcare, attend school and travel. Being vaccinated will give you greater protection. --- Section Separator --- You will be legally required to provide your My Vaccine Pass to enter places that have vaccination requirements in place under the traffic lights. This may include hospitality venues, events, gatherings and gyms. You cannot be asked to provide your My Vaccine Pass to access basic needs services, such as supermarkets, public transport, and essential health care. My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Red, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead with My Vaccine Pass requirements and public facilities can open with restrictions at Red. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face covering. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements at some locations. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Red, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead with My Vaccine Pass requirements and public facilities can open with restrictions at Red. Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face covering. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Red. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements at some locations. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Workplaces can open at Red. If it is appropriate for your job, you can work from home. Talk to your employer about what is appropriate for you. Most businesses can choose whether they require My Vaccine Pass for customers and visitors, but there will be restrictions if they do not, including possibly needing to close. They can also switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring My Vaccine Pass. This could happen in places such as funeral homes where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a business chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both staff and visitors, must be told what the vaccine pass requirements are—whether it is for people with My Vaccine Pass, or a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. Advice for businesses on checking and verifying My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate must be vaccinated. This applies to food and drink services (excluding takeaway-only businesses), events, close-proximity businesses and indoor exercise facilities like gyms. The mandate also applies to on-site tertiary education when Red settings are in place. Workers in these businesses must be fully vaccinated, even if the business chooses not to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If a business is only offering takeaway food and drink, then workers do not need to be vaccinated. Vaccine information for businesses --- Section Separator --- If you enter a business as a visitor or customer, follow the My Vaccine Pass requirements at the venue. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass, either by looking at it, or scanning the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Businesses that are subject to My Vaccine Pass requirements are expected to check My Vaccine Pass for people on their premises, including workers. My Vaccine Pass Shopping at Red Close-proximity businesses at Red Hospitality at Red Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some circumstance where you must wear a face covering: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers and formal speakers) and others are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information: Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Education Education can open at Red, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face covering. --- Section Separator --- Children can attend early childhood centres, playgroups, schools and kura at Red, and must follow public health measures. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Red with My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Children can attend early childhood centres, playgroups, schools and kura at Red, and must follow public health measures. Students can attend tertiary education in person at Red with My Vaccine Pass.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Education Early learning and schools at Red Children can attend early learning services, playgroups, schools and kura at Red, and must follow public health measures. --- Section Separator --- Certified playgroups can only open with My Vaccine Pass requirements. That means you must show your My Vaccine Pass when you are at the venue. Playgroups that operate on a school or early learning site or are run by a home-based childcare provider must be vaccinated under the vaccination order and keep a vaccine register. --- Section Separator --- All licensed early learning services can open with public health measures in places. Parents/caregivers who can supervise their children at home should do so. This does not prevent parent-led services from opening. If required, services will be able to make choices about their capacity to manage attendance. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are required to wear face coverings indoors. Parents and visitors are encouraged to maintain 1-metre distancing from other adults while indoors, for example to settle your child, or to view a service. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- All ākonga (students) Years 4 and up must wear face coverings indoors and when in close contact with others. Staff and teachers must wear face coverings when teaching and supporting children in Years 4 and up. This includes: in classrooms and assemblies when accessing public venues at student health services All ākonga aged 12 and up must wear face coverings on public transport and school transport. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face coverings on site. You do not need to wear a face covering when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We strongly encourage you to. A small number of staff, teachers and students are able to apply for an exemption. Wearing a face covering --- Section Separator --- Children and parents or caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: licensed early childhood education services and registered primary and secondary schools, including private providers school hostels school transport services for all students out of school care and recreation (OSCAR) programmes secondary students who attend a tertiary organisation for their learning. At education sites, some people must be fully vaccinated to have contact with children and students. This includes: teachers staff home-based educators every person aged 12 years and 3 months and over in the home where licensed home-based education and care takes place for children under 6 years old support people in schools and early learning centres, including volunteers teacher aides administration and maintenance staff contractors. An on-site register will be kept. A small number of staff and teachers are able to apply for an exemption. Education sector vaccinations --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an early learning service, school or kura, the early learning service or school will work the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) Advice for schools and kura with a confirmed case of COVID-19 | education.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are sick, waiting for your COVID-19 test results or have been asked to self-isolate you should stay home, and not go to your educational facility. Your school, kura, or tertiary facility should provide distance learning options if you need to stay home. Talk to your education provider if you or your child needs to learn from home. --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students are encouraged to wear face coverings in communal areas, and keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Red --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services | education.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for schools and kura | education.govt.nz. (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Education Tertiary education at Red Students can attend tertiary education in person at Red with My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- Tertiary students with a My Vaccine Pass will be able to attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials and meetings in person. They can access research spaces, student support and advisory services. Capacity is based on 1-metre distancing. Tertiary students who do not have My Vaccine Pass should talk to their provider about alternative learning options. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Staff and students must wear a face covering indoors at tertiary education facilities and when accessing services such as student health, pharmacies and other retailers onsite. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- If you are sick, waiting for your COVID-19 test results or have been asked to self-isolate you should stay home, and not go to your educational facility. Your school, kura, or tertiary facility should provide distance learning options if you need to stay home. Talk to your education provider if you or your child needs to learn from home. --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation can open. Accommodation providers can choose to require My Vaccine Pass for residents and staff. Check with your provider about their requirements. Accommodation at Red --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education providers can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary education providers | education.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Events Events can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements. Examples are: auctions cinemas commercial recreation activities concert venues conferences private galleries sporting events stadiums. If an event organiser chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There can be up to 100 people in a defined space at the venue at any time, based on 1-metre physical distancing. This includes children, but not staff. Events cannot go ahead if My Vaccine Pass requirements are not followed. When food and drink is being served, you must remain seated and separated. You can move around when you are not being served or eating. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community gatherings must follow the gathering guidelines. They are gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration. Examples are: street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs. Gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some circumstance where you must wear a face covering: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers and formal speakers) and others are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Public facilities Public facilities, like libraries and zoos, can open at Red with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- There is no limit on how many people can be inside a public facility, with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing. Examples of public facilities include: libraries public galleries museums zoos swimming pools recreation centres. Some public facilities may choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements. If they do, you will need to show My Vaccine Pass at the facilities. Check before you go. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some circumstance where you must wear a face covering: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers and formal speakers) and others are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can find more information at business.govt.nz. Public facilities guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Local government can find more information at dia.govt.nz. COVID-19 Local Government Response Update | dia.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Gatherings and visits, such as at home, places of worship, and sport locations, can go ahead at Red, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can have a gathering at Red, like getting together with friends, holding a wedding and attending a place of worship, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. Marae can open at Whero (Red), with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can have a gathering at Red, like getting together with friends, holding a wedding and attending a place of worship, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. Marae can open at Whero (Red), with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, hospitals, healthcare facilities and prisons at Red.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. --- Section Separator --- Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Red. It is up to the staff and the whānau or family to agree if the funeral or tangihanga is only open to people with My Vaccine Pass or to a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. If the funeral or tangihanga is following My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. There can be up to 100 people in a single defined space at the venue at any time, both indoors and outdoors. The limit includes children under 12, whānau pani and ringawera. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes marae churches, mosques and other faith-based places of worship hired venues or facilities private homes You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga, burial or viewing. You can serve food and drink. A marae can have multiple groups of 100 people coming through to attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Red Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). Up to 100 people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you are fully vaccinated. This can include: washing dressing shrouding other preparations for cremation or burial. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) Organisers of the funeral or tangihanga must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- If a venue chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements, funerals and tangihanga are limited to 25 people based on 1-metre distancing in a single defined space. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children under 12, but not staff. You can serve food and drink. Talk with your funeral director about specific arrangements—they can guide you on the best options for your situation, which may include livestreaming or video so others can take part in the service remotely. Marae can choose whether to allow people without a My Vaccine Pass to attend a tangihanga. If they are allowed, tangihanga are limited to 25 people. Multiple groups of 25 people can attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae can also choose to switch between allowing people with and without My Vaccine Pass to attend. Groups cannot be on the marae at the same time. For example, 25 people who do not have My Vaccine Pass could attend a tangihanga in the morning. After cleaning, a group of 100 people with My Vaccine Pass could attend the tangihanga later in the day. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Red Up to 25 people can view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). The limit can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit does not include staff who are attending. Your funeral director will work with you to make sure viewings are carried out in a safe way. Organisers of the funeral or tangihanga must record attendees to make sure contact tracing can happen if needed. This includes keeping a record of the date and time of the funeral, tangihanga or viewing, and the names and contact details of everyone attending. If you are visiting a funeral home, or attending a funeral or tangihanga, you can scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app, or provide your details for contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility, and all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. --- Section Separator --- Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face coverings. We encourage you to wear a face covering whenever you leave your home. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, places of worship or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both staff and visitors, must be told what the My Vaccine Pass requirements are — whether My Vaccine Pass is or is not required. --- Section Separator --- There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: not kiss or touch the body wash your hands thoroughly after the viewing physically distance from others of at least 1 metre. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings You can have a gathering at Red, like meeting friends, holding a wedding and attending a lace of worship, with My Vaccine Pass requirements and restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings can go ahead at Red, with and without My Vaccine Pass requirements, but with different restrictions for each. Under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights), household bubbles do not exist. Examples of gatherings that can go ahead at Red include: catching up with friends and whānau weddings and civil union ceremonies most faith-based gatherings get-togethers and parties at your home club functions social sports funerals and tangihanga most gatherings at marae street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs More information about funerals and tangihanga at Red More information about marae at Red --- Section Separator --- If a gathering chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. This includes workers. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. At a gathering at your home or private dwelling, there can be up to 100 people. At gatherings held at other venues, there can be up to 100 people based on 1-metre physical distancing in a single defined space at the venue at any time. The limit applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. It includes children, but not staff. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If a venue for a gathering chooses not to operate with vaccine pass requirements: at a gathering at your home, there can be up to 25 people. at gatherings held at other venues, there can be up to 25 people based on 1-metre physical distancing in a single defined space at the venue at any time. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit applies to both indoor and outdoor venues. The limit includes children, but not staff. Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Some religious rituals or practices need people to be close to each other — for example, a christening. Try to keep the time spent in close contact to a minimum. Encourage contactless donations instead of a cash collection box. You can have refreshments after a service, but people should not share drinks, cups, plates, cutlery or other items. You do not have to follow the advice for hospitality at any traffic light setting. Places of worship should display posters or signage indicating they will be asking people to show their My Vaccine Pass to enter. Consider offering online services so people who cannot attend in person can participate. This could be suitable for faith-based gatherings. Singing, for example, choirs and other types of performance, can go ahead. Performers do not need to wear a face covering. Clean and sanitise musical instruments thoroughly before and after use. Guidelines for places of worship [PDF, 306 KB] --- Section Separator --- Locations and venues can switch between requiring My Vaccine Pass and not requiring it. This could happen in places such as funeral homes, places of worship or marae, where they have different groups entering the venue after each other. If a location or venue chooses to switch: there must be no mingling of groups rooms should be well ventilated high-touch surfaces, such as door handles, should be cleaned between groups everyone, both staff and visitors, must be told what the My Vaccine Pass requirements are — whether My Vaccine Pass is or is not required. --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering. If your gathering is at a hospitality venue, for example at a licensed restaurant, you need to follow the hospitality advice. If you have exclusive use of a hospitality venue, then you do not need to follow the hospitality advice. Private homes and places of worship do not have to follow hospitality rules. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some circumstance where you must wear a face covering: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers and formal speakers) and others are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Visiting friends and whānau You can visit friends and whānau at home, in social housing, aged care facilities, healthcare facilities and prisons at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights), household bubbles do not exist. Examples include: catching up with friends and whānau at their home or your home parties and other gatherings at their home or your home. Follow the advice for private gatherings. Private gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau who live in social or community housing. Tenants in social and community housing should check with their landlord about any requirements for visitors, and which shared facilities are open. Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) You must wear a face covering when visiting an aged care facility. Wear a face covering Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep their staff and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. You must wear a face covering when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Wear a face covering Scan the NZ COVID Tracer app QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. Health professionals can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Information for health professionals | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in prison with restrictions. Visitors to prisoners must have had at least one COVID-19 vaccine dose. Only people with a My Vaccine Pass will be allowed to visit. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. You will need to show a printed copy of your My Vaccine Pass to prison staff on arrival. Prison sites may also have other public health measures in place, for example, you may be required to complete a health or temperature check. Check with the prison site before you visit. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some circumstance where you must wear a face covering: on domestic air transport services public transport arrival and departure points of public transport services retail public venues/facilities (not swimming pools) pharmacies veterinary services and animal health and welfare services courts and tribunals specified social services the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited premises operated by a central government agency, a local authority, or NZ Police anyone who is not a patient or worker of a health service other than pharmacies workers (paid and non-paid) at food and drink businesses and services, including within events workers (paid and non-paid) at close-proximity businesses workers (paid and non-paid) at gatherings, excluding performers and formal speakers. We encourage you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home, including at the gym, hairdresser, and at work. At events, workers (excluding performers and formal speakers) and others are strongly encouraged to wear face coverings. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Hospitality venues Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass and restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants (excluding takeaway-only businesses) and nightclubs, can open at Red, with My Vaccine Pass and restrictions. If a hospitality venue chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to enter the premises. This includes delivery drivers, and people who are picking up their own takeaway orders. There can be up to 100 people, based on 1-metre distancing, in a single defined space at the venue at any time. You will have to be seated and separated from other groups. Nightclubs can open, but customers must be seated and separated, which means dancing is not allowed. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Food and beverage businesses that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Red Businesses that offer food and drink on site, as well as a takeaway option for customers without My Vaccine Pass, will need to operate as a hospitality venue. At these businesses, if you do not have My Vaccine Pass you must collect your takeaways in a contactless way, and must not go inside. You must scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- If a hospitality business chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, it can open for takeaway only and should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Red Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Public-facing staff must wear face coverings. We encourage you to wear a face covering whenever you are outside your home. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Shopping Shops and retail outlets can open at Red with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Shops, including outdoor markets, banks and takeaway-only businesses, can open with capacity limits based on 1-metre distancing. Some retail businesses can choose to require My Vaccine Pass requirements, though this will not affect their capacity limits. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the shop. Everyone will always be able to access basic needs like food. Supermarkets and dairies are not allowed to prevent access based on your vaccination status. Access to basic needs at Red If you are at a close-proximity service within a retail setting, for example a make-up artist within a makeup store, then you must follow the rules for close-proximity businesses. The rest of the retail store only needs to follow the retail rules. Close-proximity businesses at Red Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face covering when shopping and going to a bank. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Advice for retailers | business.govt.nz. (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Sport and recreation Recreation Indoor recreation facilities can open at Red with restrictions. Outdoor recreation can go ahead. --- Section Separator --- You can travel for recreation — including overnight camping trips and trips to your bach or holiday home. There are temporary travel restrictions when travelling in and out of Auckland between 3 December 2021 and 17 January 2022. Follow the travel advice. Travel at Red --- Section Separator --- Gyms and indoor recreation facilities, such as dance studios, yoga studios, health clubs, bowling alleys and ice skating rinks, can open if they choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. If the facility chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. Children under the age of 12 years and 3 months do not need to provide a My Vaccine Pass to enter places with a vaccination requirement. Gyms and indoor recreation facilities can have up to 100 people in a single defined space at any time based on 1-metre distancing. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated A facility cannot open if it chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. Public recreation facilities will follow the guidelines for public facilities. Public facilities at Red --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor swimming pools, saunas and steam rooms can open but with restrictions. If you want to go to a private facility that chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. They can have up to 100 people at a time, based on 1-metre distancing. Learn to swim classes can continue. Participants in these classes do not have to physically distance, but all other swimmers should keep a 1 metre apart from people they do not know. A private facility such as a swimming pool at a gym cannot open if it chooses not to follow vaccine pass requirements. If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Red --- Section Separator --- Outdoor exercise classes can go ahead at Red with restrictions. If the business organising the class chooses to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, only people with My Vaccine Pass are allowed to be there. There can be up to 100 people present, based on 1-metre distancing. My Vaccine Pass Get vaccinated If the business organising the class chooses not to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, the classes will be limited to 25 people based on 1-metre physical distancing. They can be a mix of people with and without My Vaccine Pass. The limit includes children under the age of 12, but does not include staff. --- Section Separator --- Parks, playgrounds, sports grounds and other outdoor recreation facilities such as skate parks can open to everyone. Private clubs such as golf or tennis clubs that are not members-only indoor exercise facilities, can choose to restrict their facilities to vaccinated people only. Contact your local club to find out how they are operating. Physical distancing is strongly encouraged. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an outdoor recreation facility, follow the rules for: events at Red , or gatherings at Red --- Section Separator --- Face coverings help reduce the spread of COVID-19. There are some places when you must wear a face covering. We recommend you wear a face covering whenever you leave your home. When to wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Entertainment, recreation and exercise guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Travel and accommodation You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can travel around New Zealand at Red. There are temporary restrictions for entering Northland and leaving Auckland. Accommodation can open at Red without restrictions. --- Section Separator --- You can travel around New Zealand at Red. There are temporary restrictions for entering Northland and leaving Auckland. Accommodation can open at Red without restrictions.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Travel and accommodation Accommodation Accommodation can open at Red without restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Accommodation can open at Red. There are no capacity limits. Some accommodation may choose to require My Vaccine Pass. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the accommodation. This includes: cabins campgrounds backpackers boarding houses hotels and motels seasonal worker accommodation AirBnB properties tertiary accommodation. It does not include private residences. If you are holding an event or a gathering at accommodation, follow the relevant advice: Events at Red Gatherings at Red Everyone over the age of 12 years and 3 months must have a My Vaccine Pass to stay in a DOC hut or campsite. Visitors will be asked about their vaccination status when they book a DOC hut or campsite. Hut wardens may also carry out spot checks to make sure everyone has My Vaccine Pass. If you do not have a My Vaccine Pass, you can still use the DOC tracks and toilets, but you will not be allowed to stay overnight. Staying in a DOC hut or campsite | doc.govt.nz (external link) Scan the QR code or keep a record of where you go. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- Accommodation services can provide food and drink. Customer-facing food and beverage services, other than room service, must follow the food and beverage rules. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face covering at accommodation and whenever you are outside your home. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) When you are ready to check your customers' and visitors' My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app, you can display these posters to let everyone know. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Travel and accommodation Travel You can travel around New Zealand at Red. There are temporary restrictions for entering Northland and leaving Auckland. --- Section Separator --- Between 15 December 2021 and 17 January 2022, you can travel into and out of Auckland for any reason but you must follow some restrictions to leave Auckland. When leaving Auckland, no matter how long you have been inside the boundary: you must have your My Vaccine Pass with you, or you must carry evidence of a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 72 hours before crossing the boundary. You do not need to follow these requirements: if you are aged under 12 years and 3 months if you are transiting through Auckland without stopping when going into Auckland. Learn more about travel across the Auckland boundary --- Section Separator --- Police checkpoints are operating for northbound travellers entering Northland from Auckland. You will need to show your My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 72 hours before crossing the boundary to enter Northland. You do not need to follow these requirements if you are transiting Auckland without stopping — for example travelling directly from Hamilton to Northland. The checkpoints will be on: State Highway 1 at Uretiti State Highway 12 near Maungaturoto The checkpoints will operate 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. More information on Police checkpoints in Northland (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at any traffic light setting. There are no boundaries under the traffic lights, but there are temporary restrictions for travel out of Auckland, and into Northland. You can travel for any reason. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test, unless you are travelling with some transport providers. Airlines and Cook Strait ferries If you are travelling into a different setting area, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. Travel at Orange --- Section Separator --- Some transport providers, such as Air New Zealand, KiwiRail and Cook Strait ferry operators, may require you to show a My Vaccine Pass or negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. The test must be taken no more than 72 hours before your journey. Check with the operator what its My Vaccine Pass or testing requirements are before you travel. Free rapid antigen tests will be available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests will be available for travellers from any part of New Zealand who: are unvaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms, and need a negative test result to travel with a transport company. More information about free rapid antigen testing You must wear a face covering: on flights on Cook Strait ferries at arrival and departure points, for example airports Face coverings are not required when in designated carriages on specified Kiwirail services. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- While vaccination is highly effective, it is still possible to get COVID-19. You may get it while you are away from home, even if you are following the rules. You should prepare for what you may need to do if this happens. If you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- You do not need to show a vaccine pass to use public transport, as these services are needed to access services for basic needs such as food and healthcare. There are no physical distancing requirements on public transport, at bus stops or train stations. You must wear a face covering: on public transport at arrival and departure points, for example airports, train stations and bus stops Face coverings are not required when in designated carriages on specified Kiwirail services. Scan the QR code or keep a record of which service you travelled with and when. This will help with contact tracing for any cases in your community. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to show a vaccine pass to use taxi and ride-share vehicles. You must wear a face covering. You are encouraged to scan the NZ COVID Tracer QR code or keep a record of which service you used. Wear a face covering --- Section Separator --- If you have been told to self-isolate because of COVID-19, you must not travel. What to do if you are told to self-isolate If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, you must not travel. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. To slow the spread of the virus, and continue to help protect you, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands or use hand sanitiser. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep your distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and get a test. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Transport operators can find more information: Advice for transport operators about COVID-19 Protection Framework | transport.govt.nz (external link) Advice for transport, freight and logistics | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Resources for businesses Get your QR code poster There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. --- Section Separator --- Before you start, you will need your: NZ Business Number (NZBN) or Business Industry Classification Code address details for each of your locations email address You should only use the official NZ COVID-19 QR code poster issued by the Ministry of Health. This is so that visitors know that scanning the QR code links to NZ COVID Tracer app, and is for contact tracing purposes. --- Section Separator --- When you receive your QR code poster you should: print the poster display the poster somewhere visitors can see it and scan it when they arrive, for example next to the entrance ask visitors to scan the QR code when they arrive, using the NZ COVID Tracer app display as many posters as you need to, to avoid queues forming --- Section Separator --- Once you have your QR code, you can also order Near Field Communication (NFC) tags. They are even quicker to use than scanning a QR code: your customers can just hold their phone near your tag to automatically create a diary entry in their NZ COVID Tracer app. The Ministry of Health has more information about how NFC tags work, and how to order some for your business. NFC tags for NZ COVID Tracer app | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can reprint your QR code posters, update and manage the contact details registered to your poster and archive any posters you no longer need online. Manage and reprint your QR code poster (external link) (external link) We encourage you to check your contact details are up to date. This will help contact tracers to quickly notify you if someone who tests positive for COVID-19 has been to your premises, or if your business is identified as a location of interest. --- Section Separator --- When someone tests positive for COVID-19, contact tracers need to know where they have been while they were infectious. If a person who tests positive for COVID-19 has visited your business, contact tracers need to get in touch with you and notify people who were there at the same time. The faster that this can happen, the faster that contacts can isolate and get tested, and the more likely it is that we can stop the spread of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If they scanned in, everything can go faster. Contact tracers can use the contact details you included when you signed up for your QR code poster to get in touch with you quickly, and let you know what to do next. If the person who tested positive did not scan in, contact tracers use the location name on your poster to try and get in touch with you, and quickly alert anyone who scanned in at the time the case was there. If it is hard to find the right location details, this takes longer – and sometimes we cannot find them at all. If you have multiple posters at your business with different details, we might not notify everyone who scanned in.
Home Traffic lights Resources for businesses How to display a QR code poster Having a QR code in a prominent place makes it easier for anyone visiting you to keep track of where they have been. --- Section Separator --- You must display your QR code in a prominent place at or near the main entrance. You must have additional QR codes available to scan in other places around your business — for example, at counters where people go up to pay, at the reception desk or in areas where customers and visitors regularly walk past. You can print as many copies of your QR code poster as you like, but each location needs its own QR code. Your poster also needs to be in good condition so it is easy to scan for your customers and visitors. --- Section Separator --- print in A4 and in colour if possible place the poster about 130cm off the ground make it easy for people to reach consider those that may be less able to reach over or around objects. crop or alter the poster or code place the poster on sliding or revolving doors place in narrow, or hard-to-see areas place in an area with high glare place high up or in hard-to-reach areas. --- Section Separator --- You need a separate poster for each unique location. All public transport services and small passenger services, like taxis, are legally required to display QR codes to help passengers keep track of where they have been. This includes buses, trains, planes, ferries and ride-share vehicles. Public transport services must display additional copies of QR codes in prominent places — such as windows to make it easier and more accessible for passengers to scan in. Public transport services that have less than 5 seats, taxis and ride-share vehicles only need to display one QR code. Workplaces without fixed premises still need to display QR codes. You must display a QR code at any place where work is being carried out. This includes any place where a worker goes, or is likely to be, while at work. While QR codes are linked to a unique location, this does not have to be a fixed location. For example, you can get a QR code for a work vehicle. If you are organising an event or gathering, you can choose to have a QR code poster. Advice on record keeping and contact tracing
Home Traffic lights Resources for businesses Record keeping and contact tracing Help protect Aotearoa by encouraging staff and visitors to scan in every time they visit your business. --- Section Separator --- Record keeping involves collecting the details of all workers, customers, and visitors who visit your workplace or location. If there is a case of COVID-19 in the community, public health officials and contact tracers will use this information to identify people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. When businesses and event organisers keep records of who was at their workplace or location, it makes contact tracing faster and more efficient. Good record keeping and fast contact tracing will help stop the spread of COVID-19, and protect our businesses, communities and each other. --- Section Separator --- Many businesses and locations are now required to make sure people can easily keep a record of when they visit. This is a requirement at Red, Orange and Green. If you are the person in charge of a business, location or event, you legally must: make sure you have safe and secure systems and processes in place so that everyone working on or visiting your premises can scan in or provide their details for contact tracing keep contact tracing records for workers, contractors, customers, and volunteers, no matter how long they are there for keep a record of everyone aged 12 years or over who visits or works at your premises. You legally must have more than one way for people to record their visit, especially for people who are not able to scan QR codes. Your system for recording customers and visitors can include: asking people to scan in using the NZ COVID Tracer app recording your customers' and visitors' details manually providing paper forms for customers and visitors to fill in with their details and place in a collection box using your existing record-keeping systems, such as swipe-card access or appointment bookings. You still need to continue displaying your QR code poster even if you are not required to collect customer records. More information and advice on record keeping | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Certain businesses and event organisers legally must have a way for customers and visitors to record that they have entered their premises or attended a gathering or event. You must have ways to record a visit if you are: a cafe, restaurant, bar or nightclub a health service a close-contact personal care service — for example, a hairdresser or beautician an indoor exercise facility — for example a gym or swimming pool an entertainment venue — for example a cinema, stadium, theatre or casino an indoor public facility where people gather — museums or libraries a court or tribunal a social services provider with customer service counters — such as a Ministry of Social Development office organising a wedding, funeral, tangihanga or faith-based service organising a concert having a gathering or hui at a marae. At an event, for example a wedding or tangihanga, either the venue owner or operator, or the organiser/hirer of the venue can be the person who is responsible for making sure there are ways for people to record their visit. We still encourage you to keep contact tracing records and promote the use of the NZ COVID Tracer app. Information about the NZ COVID Tracer app --- Section Separator --- Contact records are personal information. They need to be collected, used, stored, disclosed, and disposed of safely and securely in accordance with the Privacy Act 2020. The most secure way for customers and visitors to record their details is by scanning the NZ COVID Tracer app. If people cannot use the NZ COVID Tracer app, you need to make sure that any alternative method you use for contact tracing protects people’s privacy, and that you only use the information they provide for contact tracing purposes. Alternative recording systems require more care to keep them safe and secure. Do not leave paper-based records out in the open where others can see the information. This is the leading cause of COVID-19-related privacy breaches. The Office of the Privacy Commissioner's website has practical guidance that will help you protect people's privacy when using alternative contact recording methods. Use a simple privacy statement alongside your alternative record keeping system to let people know why the information is needed and how long you need it for. Guidance on mandatory record keeping for contact tracing | privacy.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are several ways you can make record keeping easier for you and your workers, customers and visitors. --- Section Separator --- If someone refuses to or is unable to scan in, you are not expected to force someone to provide their details, or to refuse them entry. Remember, some people may have their own way of keeping track of where they have been. It is up to you to decide what is appropriate for your premises and the wellbeing of your staff and other customers. --- Section Separator --- Download and print record keeping slips, stickers and a box template. You can also print posters to remind staff, customers and visitors to scan in. Resources --- Section Separator --- If you do not follow these record keeping requirements, you will be fined an infringement fee of $300 or a court-imposed fine of up to $1,000. Failing to display a QR code will continue to be an infringement offence carrying an infringement fee of $300 or court imposed fine of up to $1,000.
Home Traffic lights Traffic lights map Search or browse for your local traffic light setting. --- Section Separator --- What you need to do under each traffic light setting Life at Red Life at Orange Black lines indicate the boundary around Auckland, which includes Port Waikato. --- Section Separator --- Between 15 December 2021 and 17 January 2022, you can travel out of or into Auckland for any reason, but you must follow some restrictions to leave Auckland. When leaving Auckland, no matter how long you have been inside the boundary: you must be fully vaccinated and have your My Vaccine Pass with you, or you must carry evidence of a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 72 hours before crossing the boundary. You do not need to follow these requirements: if you are aged under 12 years and 3 months if you are transiting through Auckland without stopping when going into Auckland. --- Section Separator --- Waka Kotahi’s Journey Planner uses the latest travel time information, traffic cameras, and updates on delays, roadworks and road closures to help you plan your journey. Use Journey Planner (external link)
Home Travel To travel within New Zealand or arrive here from overseas, you may need to have a vaccination status certificate, get a pre-departure test or enter isolation. What you need to know Travel with Australia International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- Information about crossing the boundary around Auckland. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. From 15 December, you will need your My Vaccine Pass to travel into or out of Auckland. --- Section Separator --- You can travel around New Zealand at Red, but there are temporary Auckland and Northland requirements. You travel anywhere for any reason at Orange, but you must wear a face covering in some places. You can travel anywhere at Green, but you must wear a face covering on flights. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share. Businesses must display posters advertising if they require people entering to have a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Pass posters Get your QR code poster
Home Travel International travel and transit Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Entry to New Zealand is strictly controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. The Government requires non-New Zealand citizens to meet COVID-19 vaccine requirements before travelling to New Zealand by air. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Information on travelling between New Zealand and some countries without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) is an important part of our border measures to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Entry to New Zealand is strictly controlled to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. The Government requires non-New Zealand citizens to meet COVID-19 vaccine requirements before travelling to New Zealand by air. Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. Information on travelling between New Zealand and some countries without having to enter a managed isolation facility when you arrive. Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) is an important part of our border measures to keep COVID-19 out of New Zealand. The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with some countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Many borders around the world are closed to people who are not citizens and permanent residents of that country. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border restrictions.
Home Travel International travel and transit Leaving New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate on arrival, show proof of vaccination or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — for all destinations except the Cook Islands. For the Cook Islands, the New Zealand Government advises you to “exercise increased caution”. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders who are overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) You may need proof of vaccination to travel overseas. Anyone 12 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can now request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Requesting your certificate takes just 1 to 2 minutes and will be emailed to you within 24 hours. The quickest way to get your pass is through your My Covid Record, but if you cannot access this service you can call 0800 222 478 — have your NHI number ready. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with Australia and the Cook Islands. Quarantine-free travel with the Cook Islands New Zealand safe travel zone | homeaffairs.gov.au (external link) Some countries require travellers to have a negative COVID-19 test result before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your doctor. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your doctor or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given an electronic or paper copy of the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from MIQ. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Before travelling overseas we recommend you check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Check: the official website of the country you wish to enter or transit, or that country’s diplomatic representative in New Zealand. Many countries require travellers to self-isolate on arrival, show proof of vaccination or have a negative COVID-19 test result before they can travel. --- Section Separator --- New Zealanders are advised not to travel overseas at this time. The New Zealand Government has raised its travel advice to “do not travel” — the highest level — for all destinations except the Cook Islands. For the Cook Islands, the New Zealand Government advises you to “exercise increased caution”. Travel advice at SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government is urging any New Zealanders who are overseas to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may need proof of vaccination to travel overseas. Anyone 12 years and over who has had any dose of the COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can now request an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Requesting your certificate takes just 1 to 2 minutes and will be emailed to you within 24 hours. The quickest way to get your pass is through your My Covid Record, but if you cannot access this service you can call 0800 222 478 — have your NHI number ready. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate --- Section Separator --- New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with Australia and the Cook Islands. Quarantine-free travel with the Cook Islands New Zealand safe travel zone | homeaffairs.gov.au (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some countries require travellers to have a negative COVID-19 test result before they leave New Zealand. You can check the requirements of the country you are travelling to by contacting their local high commission, embassy or consulate in New Zealand. As soon as your travel plans are confirmed, contact Healthline or your doctor. Find out when you can go in for a COVID-19 test. The test needs to be taken as close as possible to your date of travel — check the timing that applies to your country. You may need to pay for the test yourself, at the time. Your test will be sent to a local laboratory, which will provide a result to your doctor or you directly. A health provider will let you know the result of the test. It can take several days for test results to be available, so make sure you do not leave it too late. Assuming the test is negative, you will be given an electronic or paper copy of the results to take to the airport. In the unlikely event the test is positive, your health provider will talk with you about what happens next. Take your negative test results with you to airport check-in. You may need to show your results to customs or immigration on arrival at your destination. Further travel advice from the Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand Government has transit arrangements with a number of countries to make it easier for each country’s citizens to get home. Transit agreements that say who may transit through New Zealand are published by Immigration New Zealand. You should also check if you need to apply for a transit exemption from MIQ. Transit arrangements from Immigration New Zealand (external link) (external link) Exemptions to transit through New Zealand, and how to apply (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Quarantine-free travel Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) --- Section Separator --- As part of our response to protect Aotearoa from the Omicron variant, all stays in MIQ have been extended to 10 days. This replaces the 7 day stay in MIQ followed by the requirement to self-isolate at home for 3 days after leaving MIQ. The next MIQ room release will be on Thursday, 6 January 2022. Almost all travellers are legally required to have a voucher confirming their place in MIQ before boarding their flight. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. If you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to book your voucher and complete your stay in our MIQ facilities. By staying in MIQ, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. Over 180,000 people have completed their MIQ stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in an MIQ facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you are flying quarantine-free to New Zealand, then you will not enter MIQ and so you do not need a voucher. Get your voucher by entering the virtual lobby up to 1 hour before room release. Everyone in the lobby has an equal chance of securing a room. Once the room release starts, everyone in the lobby will be moved into a queue. Your place in the queue is random. This means you do not need to keep refreshing your web browser, and you do not need to be the fastest to secure a room. MIQ will announce room releases at least 24 to 48 hours before they become available. How to get your voucher| miq.govt.nz (external link) About the virtual lobby | miq.govt.nz (external link) Get your voucher (external link) You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — in the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The MIQ website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests | miq.govt.nz (external link) The Government recovers some of the costs for MIQ. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for MIQ, and who needs to pay | miq.govt.nz (external link) Most people will be tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of their stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You may be asked to remain in your room until the result of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight into a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your facility to complete the rest of your stay. You can leave MIQ after 10 days if you: have a negative COVID-19 test on day 8/9 and, confirmation from a health practitioner that you are at low risk of having or transmitting COVID-19. When you arrive in New Zealand you are checked for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. Exemptions from managed isolation are approved in very few circumstances. Applications for exemptions are considered on a case-by-case basis and the threshold for approval is very high. An exemption will only be approved where we can be confident that the health risk of transmission is very low. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply Apply for an exemption from staying in MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) 300 places a month have been allocated for critical health and disability workers entering New Zealand for employment in a critical health and disability role. Visit the Ministry of Health website for more on eligibility criteria and how to apply. Dedicated MIQ places for critical health and disability workers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- As part of our response to protect Aotearoa from the Omicron variant, all stays in MIQ have been extended to 10 days. This replaces the 7 day stay in MIQ followed by the requirement to self-isolate at home for 3 days after leaving MIQ. The next MIQ room release will be on Thursday, 6 January 2022. --- Section Separator --- Almost all travellers are legally required to have a voucher confirming their place in MIQ before boarding their flight. Those returning to New Zealand have a responsibility to do their part to stop COVID-19 spreading. If you have been vaccinated against COVID-19, you still need to book your voucher and complete your stay in our MIQ facilities. By staying in MIQ, we can ensure people do not have COVID-19 before returning to our communities. Over 180,000 people have completed their MIQ stay safely, and have returned to their loved ones and friends. --- Section Separator --- You are legally required to have a voucher before flying to New Zealand. Your voucher allocates you a place in an MIQ facility. Airlines will not be permitted to board you if you do not have a voucher, unless you are exempt from using the Managed Isolation Allocation System. If you are flying quarantine-free to New Zealand, then you will not enter MIQ and so you do not need a voucher. --- Section Separator --- Get your voucher by entering the virtual lobby up to 1 hour before room release. Everyone in the lobby has an equal chance of securing a room. Once the room release starts, everyone in the lobby will be moved into a queue. Your place in the queue is random. This means you do not need to keep refreshing your web browser, and you do not need to be the fastest to secure a room. MIQ will announce room releases at least 24 to 48 hours before they become available. How to get your voucher| miq.govt.nz (external link) About the virtual lobby | miq.govt.nz (external link) Get your voucher (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can apply for an emergency allocation if you cannot book your preferred date in the Managed Isolation Allocation System, and you meet the eligibility criteria. You can request an emergency allocation if: you are legally entitled to enter New Zealand under our current border settings your travel is time-critical — in the next 14 days you have registered in the Managed Isolation Allocation System and you have not been able to book an allocation for the date you require urgent travel your circumstances fall within 1 of the 2 categories permitted, and you have attached evidence to support your application. The MIQ website has details about the travel categories permitted for emergency allocation, and what supporting evidence you need. Very few emergency allocation requests will be granted. We encourage you to book in early to the Managed Isolation Allocation System, as this is the best way to guarantee your place. Emergency allocation requests | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Government recovers some of the costs for MIQ. This is to share the costs in a way that fairly reflects the benefits to both the New Zealand public of having a robust system, and those who leave and enter the country. Costs for MIQ, and who needs to pay | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people will be tested for COVID-19 around day 0/1 of their stay — within 24 hours of arriving. You may be asked to remain in your room until the result of the test is known. If you are symptomatic when you arrive, you will go straight into a quarantine facility. If the result of your day 0/1 test is positive, you will be moved to a quarantine facility. If you test negative, you will stay in your facility to complete the rest of your stay. You can leave MIQ after 10 days if you: have a negative COVID-19 test on day 8/9 and, confirmation from a health practitioner that you are at low risk of having or transmitting COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- When you arrive in New Zealand you are checked for symptoms of COVID-19. If you: do not have symptoms, you will isolate at a managed isolation facility have symptoms or test positive for COVID-19, you will isolate in a quarantine facility or separate area. Both types of facilities are located within hotels. --- Section Separator --- There are no exemptions from quarantine for people with COVID-19 symptoms. Managed isolation is an important part of keeping COVID-19 out of New Zealand, but we know there are people facing exceptional circumstances. Exemptions from managed isolation are approved in very few circumstances. Applications for exemptions are considered on a case-by-case basis and the threshold for approval is very high. An exemption will only be approved where we can be confident that the health risk of transmission is very low. Any exemption is from being in managed isolation, not from having to isolate. The managed isolation and quarantine website has information about exemptions, including: what an exemption is types of exemption available how to apply Apply for an exemption from staying in MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- 300 places a month have been allocated for critical health and disability workers entering New Zealand for employment in a critical health and disability role. Visit the Ministry of Health website for more on eligibility criteria and how to apply. Dedicated MIQ places for critical health and disability workers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Quarantine-free travel Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Most travellers legally must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. --- Section Separator --- Significant changes came into effect from Friday 7 January 2022. Please read the information on this webpage to ensure you have the correct tests and documentation to enter New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Most travellers to New Zealand must have a negative PCR or RT-PCR test within 48 hours of their scheduled departure of their first international flight. There are alternative testing options available to travellers from specific countries and jurisdictions where PCR testing is limited. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned within 48 hours of departure for a PCR or RT-PCR test. You still need a test even if you have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You are responsible for checking your chosen testing provider can provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. Tests from free community testing stations may not be acceptable for travel clearance, so check before your test. Medical certificates If you are required to provide a medical certificate because you cannot take a test due to medical reasons, you will also need to get this 48 hours before your flight. --- Section Separator --- There are 105 specificed places where obtaining a PCR or RT-PCR test may be difficult or not possible. Travellers from these places can instead provide evidence of a supervised negative rapid antigen test (RAT) or a supervised loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) test taken within 24 hours of departure. You will need to have had both your COVID-19 sample taken and your result returned within 24 hours for a RAT or LAMP test to board your flight to New Zealand. All tests must be supervised by a health professional, which includes pharmacists, and verified in writing in the place of origin. The list of places exempt from PCR or RT-PCR testing is temporary and is valid until 11:59pm on 16 January 2022. --- Section Separator --- Some people are exempt from the pre-departure testing requirements. --- Section Separator --- You must make sure that the testing provider you choose can provide your test results with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. Free community testing stations often do not provide all the information required for travel clearance, so check before having your pre-departure test. If your pre-departure documentation does not contain the required information, or is not in the required format, you may be prevented from boarding your plane. The New Zealand Government requires that all pre-departure tests contain the following information for travel clearance: traveller’s name traveller’s date of birth and/or passport number date and time the test was conducted name of testing lab test type test result --- Section Separator --- You can get tested at a range of places. We recommend you select a test provider carefully, to make sure you can get tested and get your results in time for your flight departure. Make sure you check your chosen testing provider will provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. You are responsible for meeting any costs associated with your test. All tests (including at-home tests) must be processed by a laboratory recognised in the country of origin as authorised or accredited to conduct tests. --- Section Separator --- Get information about pre-departure testing in other languages and alternate formats.
Home Travel International travel and transit Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Find information about proof of vaccination to travel from New Zealand: International Travel Vaccination Certificates — to leave New Zealand Non-New Zealand citizens must meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before travelling to New Zealand by air. You will need to tell managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) your vaccination status when you book your voucher. You must still have the right to enter New Zealand. The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, then you must still meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements. This applies even though you are staying "airside" and you do not go through Customs. You do not need to be vaccinated before travelling to New Zealand. This means that you need to: have had a full course of any of the COVID-19 vaccines that have been approved by a government health authority or approval authority, and have had the last dose at least 14 days before you depart for New Zealand. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. Any vaccine that has been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority is approved for entry into New Zealand. There are 29 vaccines that are approved for entry into New Zealand. Note: they are only approved to enter New Zealand — only some vaccines are approved for use when you are in New Zealand. You do not need to have evidence you have met COVID-19 vaccination requirements if you: are a New Zealand citizen are aged under 17 years cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a medical practitioner are a refugee are a citizen of Afghanistan and you have been evacuated are arriving in New Zealand under the Recognised Seasonal Worker (RSE) scheme from Vanuatu, Samoa, Tonga or the Solomon Islands. You do not need to apply for an exemption. Foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand are not exempt from the requirements — they must carry evidence of being vaccinated on arrival in New Zealand. If you cannot be vaccinated for some reason, you may be able to apply for an exemption. Apply for an exemption if you have not had time to meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before your travel date, you have a voucher for MIQ, and you are travelling with a New Zealand citizen who is your: spouse, civil union partner or de facto partner child parent (if you are under 18 years old) sibling from the same parent (if you are under 18 years old). Apply for an exemption if you cannot easily get vaccinations in the country that you have spent the previous 6 months before your journey to New Zealand. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can be given an exemption. Apply for an exemption (external link) If you are not a New Zealand citizen and you are required to be fully vaccinated, you need to provide evidence that: you have met COVID-19 vaccination requirements, or you cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons, or you have an exemption from the Director-General of Health. You may be asked to provide evidence of your vaccination or exemption to your airline when you check in for your travel to New Zealand. You also need to provide this evidence to NZ Customs. You need a digital vaccine passport or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: your name the name of the vaccine or vaccines you received the name of the agency that administered them the name of the place where you received them the date of each dose or the date when a primary vaccination course was completed. Your evidence must confirm your last dose was at least 14 days before departure for New Zealand. You must have an electronic or paper medical certificate from a medical practitioner that says you cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. You must have an electronic or paper copy of the exemption letter from the Director-General of Health. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to: have the right to enter New Zealand have a negative pre-departure test result enter MIQ. Some people are exempt from these requirements. Reasons you can enter New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Secure your place in MIQ --- Section Separator --- Find information about proof of vaccination to travel from New Zealand: International Travel Vaccination Certificates — to leave New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Non-New Zealand citizens must meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before travelling to New Zealand by air. You will need to tell managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) your vaccination status when you book your voucher. You must still have the right to enter New Zealand. The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, then you must still meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements. This applies even though you are staying "airside" and you do not go through Customs. You do not need to be vaccinated before travelling to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- This means that you need to: have had a full course of any of the COVID-19 vaccines that have been approved by a government health authority or approval authority, and have had the last dose at least 14 days before you depart for New Zealand. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. --- Section Separator --- Any vaccine that has been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority is approved for entry into New Zealand. There are 29 vaccines that are approved for entry into New Zealand. Note: they are only approved to enter New Zealand — only some vaccines are approved for use when you are in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to have evidence you have met COVID-19 vaccination requirements if you: are a New Zealand citizen are aged under 17 years cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a medical practitioner are a refugee are a citizen of Afghanistan and you have been evacuated are arriving in New Zealand under the Recognised Seasonal Worker (RSE) scheme from Vanuatu, Samoa, Tonga or the Solomon Islands. You do not need to apply for an exemption. Foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand are not exempt from the requirements — they must carry evidence of being vaccinated on arrival in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- If you cannot be vaccinated for some reason, you may be able to apply for an exemption. Apply for an exemption if you have not had time to meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before your travel date, you have a voucher for MIQ, and you are travelling with a New Zealand citizen who is your: spouse, civil union partner or de facto partner child parent (if you are under 18 years old) sibling from the same parent (if you are under 18 years old). Apply for an exemption if you cannot easily get vaccinations in the country that you have spent the previous 6 months before your journey to New Zealand. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can be given an exemption. Apply for an exemption (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are not a New Zealand citizen and you are required to be fully vaccinated, you need to provide evidence that: you have met COVID-19 vaccination requirements, or you cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons, or you have an exemption from the Director-General of Health. You may be asked to provide evidence of your vaccination or exemption to your airline when you check in for your travel to New Zealand. You also need to provide this evidence to NZ Customs. You need a digital vaccine passport or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: your name the name of the vaccine or vaccines you received the name of the agency that administered them the name of the place where you received them the date of each dose or the date when a primary vaccination course was completed. Your evidence must confirm your last dose was at least 14 days before departure for New Zealand. You must have an electronic or paper medical certificate from a medical practitioner that says you cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons. You must have an electronic or paper copy of the exemption letter from the Director-General of Health. --- Section Separator --- Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to: have the right to enter New Zealand have a negative pre-departure test result enter MIQ. Some people are exempt from these requirements. Reasons you can enter New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Secure your place in MIQ --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Quarantine-free travel Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands Find out about travelling quarantine-free between New Zealand and the Cook Islands. You may be interested in Travel from NZ to the Cook Islands Travel from the Cook Islands to NZ --- Section Separator --- Quarantine free travel to the Cook Islands is still set to resume on Friday, 14 January 2022 (NZT). Eligible travellers will need to meet entry requirements and be fully vaccinated. Read the latest update on the Cook Islands border opening | covid19.gov.ck (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel from NZ to the Cook Islands Travel from the Cook Islands to NZ --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Cook Islands Paused From New Zealand to Cook Islands: Paused Cook Islands New Zealand Continues From Cook Islands to New Zealand: Continues There are no locations of interest in the Cook Islands. Quarantine-free travel from New Zealand is paused. The Cook Islands Government has indicated that travel will resume from 14 January 2022. Please check Cook Islands COVID-19 Response for updates. Cook Islands COVID-19 Response | covid19.gov.ck All travellers should follow local Cook Islands health guidelines . We also strongly encourage all travellers in the Cook Islands to register on the www.safetravel.govt.nz and monitor this website for further updates.
Home Travel International travel and transit Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands New Zealand to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- The Cook Islands Government has announced that its borders will reopen, allowing travel from New Zealand to resume from 14 January 2022. You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. You must meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. You can travel to the outer islands after you arrive in Rarotonga. You do not need to self-isolate in Rarotonga before you continue your journey to the outer islands. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. The Cook Islands border will reopen on 14 January 2022. To travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight after then, you must meet the following criteria: You must be fully vaccinated. This means at this stage only people aged 12 and over can travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands. You must provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 test before departure. You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete the travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart New Zealand (see information below) You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Anyone can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for a stay of up to 31 days. The passport you hold does not matter. You must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. New Zealand and Australian passport holders need at least 7 days remaining on their passports from the date they leave the Cook Islands. All other passport holders need at least 6 months remaining. It is your responsibility to ensure that you meet the Cook Islands immigration requirements. Travel information for the Cook Islands | cookislands.travel (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You must check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand from the Cook Islands. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Cook Islands Ministry of Health travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart from New Zealand. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You need to complete our own Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you fly back to New Zealand. It is a good idea to complete it before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Wear a face covering on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in the Cook islands. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. You may be screened for your health when you arrive in the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. While you are in the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you are visiting safe from COVID-19. Follow the guidelines for the Cook Islands — you can find information on the Cook Islands Government website. COVID-19 Cook Islands response | gov.ck (external link) Maintain physical distancing from others as much as possible. Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser regularly, cough or sneeze into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Avoid unnecessary touching of surfaces and items in places like shops. If you feel unwell, stay in your accommodation and put a face covering on, if you have one. Do not use public transport to go home. Call the Cook Islands Healthline on 29667 for advice about what to do next. Make sure you participate in the Cook Islands system to track people’s movements. Doing your part means you are part of the national effort to keep the Cook Islands COVID-19 free: Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the CookSafe+ app to keep track of the people you have been near. When you arrive, register for your unique CookSafe QR Card, which is a physical card you should keep with you at all times. CookSafe stations will be set up at some locations, and you should use your QR Card to scan in. Scan your QR Card at all locations with a ‘CookSafe Tag In Here’ sign. To scan in, hold your card in front of the scanning area of the device. The screen will appear green when you have successfully scanned in. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. More information about the CookSafe QR Card | cookislands.travel (external link) Download the CookSafe+ app to help with contact tracing if needed. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) CookSafe+ uses Bluetooth technology, and it works in the same way as Bluetooth tracing on our NZ COVID Tracer app. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in 1 contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you are in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall 1 app to be able to use the other. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been and who you have seen with your own pen and paper or keep a photo record. Any Bluetooth codes (or 'keys') that are sent or collected from your phone using 1 app can be accessed with the other app. The apps work together to make sure that whether you are in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, you can receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. More about CookSafe+ app | health.gov.ck (external link) The Cook Islands has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. About the Alert Level system | covid19.gov.ck (external link) You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You will need to meet any costs, and g overnment assistance is unlikely to be available. Your airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. You may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. You may need to pay for your stay. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you are a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the Cook Islands. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. This website (Covid19.govt.nz), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) If you are travelling back to New Zealand, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Everyone must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before they depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. It is a good idea to complete Nau Mai Rā before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands Download an A6 fact sheet about quarantine-free travel to New Zealand [PDF, 576 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Cook Islands Government has announced that its borders will reopen, allowing travel from New Zealand to resume from 14 January 2022. --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. You must meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. You can travel to the outer islands after you arrive in Rarotonga. You do not need to self-isolate in Rarotonga before you continue your journey to the outer islands. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. --- Section Separator --- The Cook Islands border will reopen on 14 January 2022. To travel to the Cook Islands on a quarantine-free flight after then, you must meet the following criteria: You must be fully vaccinated. This means at this stage only people aged 12 and over can travel from New Zealand to the Cook Islands. You must provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 test before departure. You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. You must complete the travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart New Zealand (see information below) You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Anyone can enter the Cook Islands as a tourist for a stay of up to 31 days. The passport you hold does not matter. You must have evidence of a return ticket or a ticket for another destination. New Zealand and Australian passport holders need at least 7 days remaining on their passports from the date they leave the Cook Islands. All other passport holders need at least 6 months remaining. It is your responsibility to ensure that you meet the Cook Islands immigration requirements. Travel information for the Cook Islands | cookislands.travel (external link) If you hold a temporary visa in New Zealand, you can travel to the Cook Islands quarantine-free as long as you meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You must check that you meet New Zealand's immigration requirements to return to New Zealand from the Cook Islands. Coming to New Zealand from the Cook Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Cook Islands Ministry of Health travel declaration no more than 72 hours before you depart from New Zealand. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You need to complete our own Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you fly back to New Zealand. It is a good idea to complete it before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. --- Section Separator --- Wear a face covering on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in the Cook islands. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. You may be screened for your health when you arrive in the Cook Islands. If you feel unwell at the airport, tell a staff member or biosecurity officer. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. --- Section Separator --- While you are in the Cook Islands, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself, your whānau and the communities you are visiting safe from COVID-19. Follow the guidelines for the Cook Islands — you can find information on the Cook Islands Government website. COVID-19 Cook Islands response | gov.ck (external link) Maintain physical distancing from others as much as possible. Wash your hands or use hand sanitiser regularly, cough or sneeze into your elbow and avoid touching your face. Avoid unnecessary touching of surfaces and items in places like shops. If you feel unwell, stay in your accommodation and put a face covering on, if you have one. Do not use public transport to go home. Call the Cook Islands Healthline on 29667 for advice about what to do next. Make sure you participate in the Cook Islands system to track people’s movements. Doing your part means you are part of the national effort to keep the Cook Islands COVID-19 free: Carry your unique CookSafe QR Card with you and scan in to the places you visit. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the CookSafe+ app to keep track of the people you have been near. When you arrive, register for your unique CookSafe QR Card, which is a physical card you should keep with you at all times. CookSafe stations will be set up at some locations, and you should use your QR Card to scan in. Scan your QR Card at all locations with a ‘CookSafe Tag In Here’ sign. To scan in, hold your card in front of the scanning area of the device. The screen will appear green when you have successfully scanned in. Register for your QR Card at Rarotonga International Airport or the Tourism Visitor Information Centre in town. More information about the CookSafe QR Card | cookislands.travel (external link) Download the CookSafe+ app to help with contact tracing if needed. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) CookSafe+ uses Bluetooth technology, and it works in the same way as Bluetooth tracing on our NZ COVID Tracer app. You can only turn on Bluetooth tracing in 1 contact tracing app at a time. Turn it on in CookSafe+ when you are in the Cook Islands, and turn it on in NZ COVID Tracer in New Zealand. You do not need to uninstall 1 app to be able to use the other. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been and who you have seen with your own pen and paper or keep a photo record. Any Bluetooth codes (or 'keys') that are sent or collected from your phone using 1 app can be accessed with the other app. The apps work together to make sure that whether you are in New Zealand or the Cook Islands, you can receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. More about CookSafe+ app | health.gov.ck (external link) The Cook Islands has a 4-tier COVID-19 Alert Level system. Make sure you know what to do at different Alert Levels. About the Alert Level system | covid19.gov.ck (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to New Zealand is delayed. You will need to meet any costs, and g overnment assistance is unlikely to be available. Your airline or travel agent should contact you if your travel is affected. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. You may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to New Zealand. You may need to pay for your stay. Applications to waive payments will be considered on a case-by-case basis. If you need to travel to New Zealand urgently, you can apply for an emergency allocation. Managed isolation and quarantine (external link) If you are a temporary visa holder from New Zealand, you should ensure you have enough time on your visa to cover an extended stay in the Cook Islands if required. If quarantine-free travel is suspended and border restrictions are put in place, you must have the right to enter New Zealand and hold a valid visa — this may include seeking a Border Exception to return to New Zealand. We encourage you to register at SafeTravel to get the latest travel advice for the Cook Islands. Registering means the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT), embassies and consulates can: contact you in an emergency situation provide consular assistance if needed check on your wellbeing, or send you important information. Register at SafeTravel (external link) Consular officials can give you local advice and support, with the aim of helping you to help yourself. Consular staff cannot pay your hotel, travel or other bills, or provide advice about flight bookings. If you need consular assistance, contact the New Zealand High Commission or Consulate closest to you or email CONS@mfat.govt.nz For emergency consular assistance, call the consular emergency line on +64 99 20 20 20 if you’re overseas, or 0800 30 10 30 if you’re in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- This website (Covid19.govt.nz), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling back to New Zealand, there are some things you need to do before you travel. You will need to meet eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. Everyone must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before they depart the Cook Islands, including New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. It is a good idea to complete Nau Mai Rā before you leave New Zealand for the Cook Islands, in case you have WiFi or other connectivity issues there. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) What to do before you travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands Download an A6 fact sheet about quarantine-free travel to New Zealand [PDF, 576 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travel advice for Auckland Permitted travel at different Alert Levels International travel and transit Travel to New Zealand Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Quarantine-free travel Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Travel to New Zealand Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Quarantine-free travel Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World Travel at Red Travel at Orange Travel at Green
Home Travel International travel and transit Quarantine-free travel Cook Islands Cook Islands to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The Cook Islands Government has announced that its borders will reopen, allowing travel from New Zealand to resume from 14 January 2022. New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back on a scheduled flight. You cannot fly if you have been at a location of interest in New Zealand or if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Before you travel: make sure you follow all health restrictions in the Cook Islands Check the Cook Islands government website (external link) complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. If your travel plans have changed, please fill out the declaration again. Call Te Marae Ora for advice on 57481, or 57482, or 57486, or 56199. You will need to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate for 14 days before you can return to New Zealand. You can travel through New Zealand to get home. Life at Red You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Travellers must meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must be fully vaccinated (see information below). You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you leave the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. You must be fully vaccinated if you are not a New Zealand citizen. Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens, and so do not need to show proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Wear a face covering on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in New Zealand. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. You will see health professionals stationed around the airport, who will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you are in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you have been. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you have visited. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering in many public places in New Zealand. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you are offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you are helping keep everyone safe. Make sure you know what to do at different traffic light settings: Traffic lights You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. This website (Covid19.govt.nz), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) How to travel back to the Cook Islands Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands Download an A6 fact sheet about quarantine-free travel to New Zealand [PDF, 576 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Cook Islands Government has announced that its borders will reopen, allowing travel from New Zealand to resume from 14 January 2022. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand travellers in the Cook Islands can travel back on a scheduled flight. You cannot fly if you have been at a location of interest in New Zealand or if you have COVID-19 symptoms. Before you travel: make sure you follow all health restrictions in the Cook Islands Check the Cook Islands government website (external link) complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. If your travel plans have changed, please fill out the declaration again. Call Te Marae Ora for advice on 57481, or 57482, or 57486, or 56199. You will need to get a COVID-19 test and self-isolate for 14 days before you can return to New Zealand. You can travel through New Zealand to get home. Life at Red --- Section Separator --- You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Travellers must meet the eligibility criteria and immigration requirements. You can visit each country for any length of time and you do not need to stay for 14 days before you return. Quarantine-free travel is available on commercial flights only. Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands does not include Australia. You must spend 14 full days in New Zealand before you can continue your journey through to the Cook Islands or Australia. --- Section Separator --- To travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight, you must meet the following criteria: You need to spend the 14 full days before your date of departure in either New Zealand or the Cook Islands. Note this means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had a positive COVID-19 test in the 14 days before you depart. If you have, you must have written advice from a health practitioner that you are no longer infectious. You are not waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test taken in the past 14 days. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must be fully vaccinated (see information below). You must complete a travel declaration before you depart (see information below). You must answer questions about your health at departure (see information below). You meet immigration requirements (see information below). Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens. They can travel to, live and work in New Zealand and do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Australian citizens may travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand without a visa or NZeTA. Citizens of other countries need a visa or NZeTA to travel from the Cook Islands to New Zealand. Explore and select a visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration before you leave the Cook Islands. You will not be able to board the plane if you have not completed it. It mainly asks you about your travel plans and contact details. Everyone travelling must complete the declaration, or have one completed for them. Complete the travel declaration (external link) You cannot use Internet Explorer to complete this form — use Google Chrome or another browser. If you need help, would like to give feedback or have technical issues, contact the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team. Contact Nau Mai Rā travel declaration team (external link) You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms You do not need a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test for travel to New Zealand on a quarantine-free flight. You must be fully vaccinated if you are not a New Zealand citizen. Cook Islanders are New Zealand citizens, and so do not need to show proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Wear a face covering on the flight and at the airports. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Health professionals may be stationed at airports to undertake random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. You must answer questions about your health at departure — you will not be able to travel if you have COVID-19 symptoms. If you have pre-existing medical conditions that explain any symptoms you may have (for example hayfever), make sure you bring evidence of this to avoid being denied boarding. This evidence must be a medical certificate. COVID-19 symptoms Make sure you and your travelling companions have completed the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration. You need to complete this before you depart the Cook Islands. Complete the Nau Mai Rā travel declaration (external link) If you feel unwell on the flight, your health will be assessed when you arrive in New Zealand. You should be prepared in case you need to meet any costs for quarantine or hospital care. Unless exempt, you must wear a face covering at the airport up until you go through Customs. Who needs to wear a face covering in New Zealand Travellers from quarantine-free flights will be taken through a green zone at the airport. There will be no contact with anyone who is arriving from other parts of the world and who are going into managed isolation or quarantine facilities. You will see health professionals stationed around the airport, who will do random temperature checks and health assessments of travellers. Airport staff will give you information sheets about how to stay safe from COVID-19 while you are in New Zealand, what to do if you feel unwell or there are community cases of COVID-19 during your stay. You can also pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet to help you keep track of where you have been. --- Section Separator --- Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there have been community cases of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app to help you keep track of the places you have visited. You can both scan QR codes and turn on Bluetooth tracing in NZ COVID Tracer. You do not need a New Zealand phone or a New Zealand Apple or Google account to download NZ COVID Tracer. Download on the App Store for iPhones (external link) Get it on Google Play for Android phones (external link) How to use NZ COVID Tracer All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code to keep a private digital diary of everywhere you go. You should also turn on Bluetooth tracing in the app. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. If you have the CookSafe+ app, turn Bluetooth tracing on in NZ COVID Tracer. Doing this will switch off Bluetooth tracing in CookSafe+. This is because you cannot use more than one Bluetooth tracing app at the same time. If you do not have a smartphone, keep track of where you have been with the NZ COVID Tracer booklet or your own pen and paper, or keep a photo record. Remember to sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. You can pick up an NZ COVID Tracer booklet when you arrive at the airport in New Zealand, or you can download one to print yourself. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering in many public places in New Zealand. Some people do not need to wear a face covering. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms, stay in your accommodation and call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 for advice. If you are offered a test for COVID-19, please take it. The test is free of charge for everyone, unless you need one to enter another country. By getting a test, you are helping keep everyone safe. Make sure you know what to do at different traffic light settings: Traffic lights --- Section Separator --- You are responsible for managing any disruption to your travel due to COVID-19. Have a plan for what to do if your return to the Cook Islands is delayed. You may need to stay in New Zealand for longer than you planned. You should get travel insurance before you travel overseas. Read the travel insurance conditions and talk to your travel insurer if you are unsure about whether their policy covers COVID-19-related travel disruption. If the COVID-19 situation changes in New Zealand, you may need to enter managed isolation or self-isolation when you return to the Cook Islands. --- Section Separator --- This website (Covid19.govt.nz), our social media channels and the Cook Islands Government Department of Health website will announce changes to the COVID-19 situation and quarantine-free travel. Cook Islands Department of Health website (external link) Unite against COVID-19 social media (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to travel back to the Cook Islands --- Section Separator --- Information in Cook Islands Māori about quarantine-free travel between the Cook Islands and New Zealand. Teretere‘anga ‘akapae‘anga-kore i rotopu ia Aotearoa, e te Kūki ‘Airani | Quarantine-free travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands Download an A6 fact sheet about quarantine-free travel to New Zealand [PDF, 576 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travel advice for Auckland Permitted travel at different Alert Levels International travel and transit Travel to New Zealand Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Quarantine-free travel Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Travel to New Zealand Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Quarantine-free travel Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World Travel at Red Travel at Orange Travel at Green
Home Travel International travel and transit Quarantine-free travel Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu --- Section Separator --- You can travel one-way from Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. You are responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to your country is delayed. Travellers from Samoa, Tonga, Vanuatu and Tokelau can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. Check official websites for information about Pacific Island government departure requirements. People who are eligible to enter New Zealand from Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu are: New Zealand citizens holders of a New Zealand resident visa holders of a critical purpose visa. List of critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Requirements for Australian citizens and permanent residents | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand’s transit requirements remain the same. Transit passengers | immigration.govt.nz (external link) All travellers from Tonga, regardless of citizenship, are also required to register and be approved by the Government of Tonga before travelling to New Zealand. Register for travel to New Zealand (external link) If you travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following conditions: Travellers coming from Tokelau need to spend 14 full days before their departure in Tokelau, Samoa or New Zealand. Travellers from Samoa, Tonga and Vanuatu need to spend 14 full days before their date of departure in either your country of departure or New Zealand. This means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You must be fully vaccinated, unless you are New Zealand citizen. Recognised Seasonal Employer (RSE) workers are currently required to have at least 1 dose, and will be required to be fully vaccinated from 1 January 2022. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Due to the low risk in these countries, you do not need to provide a negative test before departing for New Zealand. All travellers must complete a travel declaration form, Nau Mai Rā, for New Zealand's Ministry of Health. Complete Nau Mai Rā (external link) If you feel unwell at your departure airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, a health professional will assess you when you arrive. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility. When you arrive in New Zealand, you will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on quarantine-free arrivals. You must maintain 2 metres physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the New Zealand airport who did not arrive from your country. You must wear a face covering while in the airport in New Zealand. When you arrive in New Zealand, you should be aware of any restrictions on domestic travel and activities. What to do at the traffic light settings Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at the different traffic light settings: Traffic lights If you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. Download an A6 fact sheet about quarantine-free travel to New Zealand in English and other languages: Bislama [PDF, 469 KB] English [PDF, 1.3 MB] Gagana Samoa | Samoan [PDF, 468 KB] Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan [PDF, 564 KB] Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori [PDF, 576 KB] --- Section Separator --- You can travel one-way from Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. You are responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to your country is delayed. --- Section Separator --- Travellers from Samoa, Tonga, Vanuatu and Tokelau can travel quarantine-free to New Zealand. Check official websites for information about Pacific Island government departure requirements. --- Section Separator --- People who are eligible to enter New Zealand from Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu are: New Zealand citizens holders of a New Zealand resident visa holders of a critical purpose visa. List of critical purpose reasons to travel | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Requirements for Australian citizens and permanent residents | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand’s transit requirements remain the same. Transit passengers | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- All travellers from Tonga, regardless of citizenship, are also required to register and be approved by the Government of Tonga before travelling to New Zealand. Register for travel to New Zealand (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following conditions: Travellers coming from Tokelau need to spend 14 full days before their departure in Tokelau, Samoa or New Zealand. Travellers from Samoa, Tonga and Vanuatu need to spend 14 full days before their date of departure in either your country of departure or New Zealand. This means you can travel from day 15 onwards. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You must be fully vaccinated, unless you are New Zealand citizen. Recognised Seasonal Employer (RSE) workers are currently required to have at least 1 dose, and will be required to be fully vaccinated from 1 January 2022. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Due to the low risk in these countries, you do not need to provide a negative test before departing for New Zealand. All travellers must complete a travel declaration form, Nau Mai Rā, for New Zealand's Ministry of Health. Complete Nau Mai Rā (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you feel unwell at your departure airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, a health professional will assess you when you arrive. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility. When you arrive in New Zealand, you will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on quarantine-free arrivals. You must maintain 2 metres physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the New Zealand airport who did not arrive from your country. You must wear a face covering while in the airport in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- When you arrive in New Zealand, you should be aware of any restrictions on domestic travel and activities. What to do at the traffic light settings --- Section Separator --- Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 611 116 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at the different traffic light settings: Traffic lights --- Section Separator --- If you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. --- Section Separator --- Download an A6 fact sheet about quarantine-free travel to New Zealand in English and other languages: Bislama [PDF, 469 KB] English [PDF, 1.3 MB] Gagana Samoa | Samoan [PDF, 468 KB] Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan [PDF, 564 KB] Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori [PDF, 576 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Quarantine-free travel Travel with Australia Cook Islands Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu Niue Travel with Australia Cook Islands Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu Niue Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Quarantine-free travel Niue --- Section Separator --- Information in Niuean about quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand. Fenoga nakai nofo puipui mai Niue ki Niu Silani | Quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. If you are travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from Niue are likely to be New Zealand citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) If you are in Niue and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following conditions: You have not been overseas outside of Niue and New Zealand in the past 14 days. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. You must maintain 2 metres physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the New Zealand airport who did not arrive from Niue. You must wear a face covering while in the airport in New Zealand. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You must be fully vaccinated, unless you are New Zealand citizen. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Departures from Niue International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You are encouraged to wear a face covering at the airport. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face coverings, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from Niue. If you feel unwell at Niue International Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from Niue do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Niue arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from Niue. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from Niue. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Niue arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to Niue is delayed. If you are travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free from Niue, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Health officials can use the information to contact you if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. Remember to: Scan QR codes wherever you go. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the NZ COVID Tracer app — this helps keep track of the people you have been near. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be given to you when you arrive, or you can download and print one here: Haku tohi Muitua NZ COVID | My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (Niuean) [PDF, 668 KB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. We encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different traffic lights: Traffic lights If you travel from Niue to New Zealand and you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue, and the numbers of people entering Niue will be capped at 30 passengers per fortnight. To get approval to travel, you must do the following: Be eligible to travel to Niue. Meet conditions set by the Niuean Government, including having been in New Zealand for 14 days before you depart. If you are going to enter 14 days of quarantine in Niue, you must provide 1 negative COVID-19 test result within 4 working days of your scheduled departure. If you are applying for 14 days of self-isolation, you must provide 2 negative COVID-19 test results — 4 working days before your scheduled departure, and 9 days before that. Complete the exit health clearance process at Auckland International Airport. Niue Health will confirm the dates of your COVID-19 tests with you when your travel is approved. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu --- Section Separator --- Information in Niuean about quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand. Fenoga nakai nofo puipui mai Niue ki Niu Silani | Quarantine-free travel from Niue to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You can travel from Niue to New Zealand without having to go into a managed isolation facility when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. Quarantine-free travel is available by air only. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling quarantine free from Niue to New Zealand, normal immigration rules apply. Most travellers from Niue are likely to be New Zealand citizens, who do not need a visa or New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). If you need a visa to enter New Zealand, you will need to apply for one. If you already have a valid visa or NZeTA, you do not need to apply for a new one. Apply for a visa or NZeTA (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are in Niue and want to travel to New Zealand quarantine-free, you must meet the following conditions: You have not been overseas outside of Niue and New Zealand in the past 14 days. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days. You must maintain 2 metres physical distance (as much as possible) from anyone in the New Zealand airport who did not arrive from Niue. You must wear a face covering while in the airport in New Zealand. There are no reasonable grounds, as determined by a suitably qualified health practitioner, to suspect you may have COVID-19. This may include: having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. having had contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 in the past 14 days having any COVID-19 symptoms, and waiting for a COVID-19 test result. You must be fully vaccinated, unless you are New Zealand citizen. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Departures from Niue International Airport will be similar to how they have been operating recently, including having a pre-departure health check. You are encouraged to wear a face covering at the airport. You will get information about using the NZ COVID Tracer app, when to wear face coverings, practising good hygiene and what to do if you feel unwell while in New Zealand. You will be asked some health questions on your passenger arrival card. New Zealand officials will do random temperature checks on arrivals from Niue. If you feel unwell at Niue International Airport, a health professional will assess you. They will advise the airline whether you should travel. Airlines can refuse to board unwell travellers if they need to. If you feel unwell during your flight to New Zealand, normal ‘sick’ traveller protocols will apply. A health professional will assess you when you arrive in New Zealand. If you have COVID-19 symptoms, you and your travelling companions may need to go into a quarantine facility. If you feel unwell during your stay in New Zealand, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. --- Section Separator --- Auckland International Airport uses a Safe Travel Path to make sure arrivals from Niue do not come into contact with arrivals from other countries. The Safe Travel Path gives Niue arrivals exclusive use of the international terminal for 3 hours. No other flights will arrive 90 minutes either side of scheduled arrivals from Niue. All parts of the Safe Travel Path are deep cleaned before being used by arrivals from Niue. You will be escorted off your plane, and you will follow a dedicated path through the terminal. This path will be clearly marked. You will use dedicated border processing lanes, baggage claim carousels and baggage trolleys. These will be blocked off when not being used by Niue arrivals. The public arrivals hall will have barriers blocking off exits used by arrivals going into managed isolation facilities. --- Section Separator --- You will be responsible for managing any travel disruption due to COVID-19. You should have a plan for what to do if your return to Niue is delayed. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling to New Zealand quarantine-free from Niue, there are a few things you need to do to keep yourself and others safe from COVID-19. Wash your hands often with soap, or use hand sanitiser. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. Keep track of your movements so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak of COVID-19 where you have been. Download and use the NZ COVID Tracer app so we can let you know if there has been an outbreak where you have been. All businesses and services in New Zealand have to display a QR code. Use the NZ COVID Tracer app to scan the QR code and keep an electronic record of everywhere you go. Health officials can use the information to contact you if you have been in the same area as a positive COVID-19 case. Remember to: Scan QR codes wherever you go. Turn on Bluetooth tracing in the NZ COVID Tracer app — this helps keep track of the people you have been near. Download NZ COVID Tracer app, and how to use it If you will not use the app, keep track of where you’ve been with pen and paper, and sign paper registers when you visit places like shops. Keep track of: where you went when you went there — date and time who you met. The NZ COVID Tracer booklet will be given to you when you arrive, or you can download and print one here: Haku tohi Muitua NZ COVID | My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (Niuean) [PDF, 668 KB] My NZ COVID Tracer booklet (English) [PDF, 664 KB] Wear a face covering on all flights in New Zealand. If you do not have one, your airline will give you one. You must also wear a face covering on public transport. We encourage you to wear one in places where physical distancing is not possible. Who needs to wear a face covering If you feel unwell, stay where you are and call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice. Make sure you know what to do at different traffic lights: Traffic lights --- Section Separator --- If you travel from Niue to New Zealand and you want to continue your journey beyond New Zealand, you will need to check the entry requirements of your onwards destination. --- Section Separator --- Currently, quarantine-free travel is only available one way, from Niue to New Zealand. The Government is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no date for this yet. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue, and the numbers of people entering Niue will be capped at 30 passengers per fortnight. To get approval to travel, you must do the following: Be eligible to travel to Niue. Meet conditions set by the Niuean Government, including having been in New Zealand for 14 days before you depart. If you are going to enter 14 days of quarantine in Niue, you must provide 1 negative COVID-19 test result within 4 working days of your scheduled departure. If you are applying for 14 days of self-isolation, you must provide 2 negative COVID-19 test results — 4 working days before your scheduled departure, and 9 days before that. Complete the exit health clearance process at Auckland International Airport. Niue Health will confirm the dates of your COVID-19 tests with you when your travel is approved. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Quarantine-free travel Travel with Australia Cook Islands Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu Niue Travel with Australia Cook Islands Samoa, Tokelau, Tonga and Vanuatu Niue Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Quarantine-free travel Travel with Australia Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Our phased border reopening will be delayed to the end of February 2022. This means travellers from Australia will need to book a place in managed isolation (MIQ) to travel to New Zealand. These changes will help keep Omicron out of our community. By delaying our border opening to the end of February, more New Zealanders will become eligible for a booster dose, and our tamariki (children) aged 5 to 11 years old will have started to get vaccinated. We will update this page when more information is available. Changes to our reopening plan --- Section Separator --- On 17 September 2021, the Government further suspended quarantine-free travel from Australia due to ongoing outbreaks. --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to almost all travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. The travel restrictions apply to almost all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. If you want to travel from Australia, you must be eligible to enter New Zealand. Check now to see if you can travel. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You need to: have the right to enter New Zealand complete a stay in MIQ — the normal rules around paying for your stay in MIQ will apply provide a negative pre-departure test, and be fully vaccinated if you are not a New Zealand citizen. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Costs for MIQ | miq.govt.nz (external link) Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccinations required for non-New Zealand citizens (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you want to travel to New Zealand, you need to book your MIQ voucher when they are available. MIQ has introduced a virtual lobby for all room releases. Visit the MIQ website to find out how to participate in the virtual lobby booking system. Get your voucher through the virtual lobby (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can travel quarantine-free from anywhere in New Zealand to Australia. This began on 1 November 2021. To travel to Australia, you must: have been in Australia or New Zealand in the 14 days before your departure have proof of a negative pre-departure PCR test result within 3 days of your departure complete the Australia Travel Declaration at least 72 hours before your departure be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 — this must be consistent with the ATAGI definition of fully vaccinated, with a Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) approved or recognised vaccine. Individual states or territories may not accept quarantine-free travellers from New Zealand. They may also have their own rules or guidance for travelling there. Check with the state government website for what you need to do. You should also check if flights are available, as they may be limited. Information for travellers by state or territory | australia.gov.au (external link) New Zealand safe travel zone | homeaffairs.gov.au (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are in Australia and have not been able to return home, we encourage you to: Sign up for email notifications for travel with Australia (external link) Register to get the latest travel advice for Australia | safetravel.govt.nz (external link) (external link) If you need information about returning home, you can call the contact centre for advice: +64 4 931 5720 if you are in Australia — rates will apply 0800 476 647 if you are in New Zealand — calls are free You can call between 8am to 10pm (NZT), 7 days a week. It is your responsibility to manage your costs for travel disruption. If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. Consular staff in New Zealand and at our consular offices in Australia cannot arrange a space in MIQ or a flight to New Zealand for you. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. Emergency consular help is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Home Travel International travel and transit Survey of New Zealand Arrivals --- Section Separator --- You may have been asked to complete the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals if you arrived in New Zealand from 1 August 2020 to 1 April 2021. Get the results for arrivals from 1 August 2020 to 1 April 2021 We carried out a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected information to help inform government policy. It did not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) led the survey in partnership with 10 other government agencies, including the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Stats NZ, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social Development, Te Tūāpapa Kura Kāinga, Ministry of Education, Ministry for Primary Industries, Te Puni Kōkiri, Treasury and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd was contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. You were invited to do the survey if you arrived in New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021 and you were 18 years or over. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you arrived in New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd were given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. Your completion of the survey was voluntary. The survey took about 12 minutes to complete, and participants could do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. This survey is now closed and no further respondents will be contacted to participate. Your answers have been combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agreed to take part in further research, your contact details were sent to the research team at MBIE. This information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after it has sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz MBIE has published the final results for arrivals into New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border restrictions. Results from the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals: Findings for arrivals between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021 [PDF, 917 KB] The survey is now complete and this is the final reporting of high-level data for all arrivals during the survey period. Further Māori-focused results will be available in November 2021. --- Section Separator --- You may have been asked to complete the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals if you arrived in New Zealand from 1 August 2020 to 1 April 2021. --- Section Separator --- Get the results for arrivals from 1 August 2020 to 1 April 2021 --- Section Separator --- We carried out a survey of people arriving in or returning to New Zealand to get a better idea of the potential impact recent arrivals may have on government services and the economy. This survey is called the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals. The New Zealand Government would like to better understand recent arrivals in New Zealand, for example who they are, where they have come from and what their circumstances are. This information will help the Government identify the needs of recent arrivals, and what this could mean for government services and policy development. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected information to help inform government policy. It did not cover the managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) process. If you have any feedback or suggestions about your experience in an MIQ facility, or you want to make a complaint, you can do this through the MIQ website. Give feedback about your experience in MIQ (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) led the survey in partnership with 10 other government agencies, including the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Stats NZ, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social Development, Te Tūāpapa Kura Kāinga, Ministry of Education, Ministry for Primary Industries, Te Puni Kōkiri, Treasury and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Martin Jenkins and Associates Ltd was contracted to carry out the survey on behalf of these agencies. Martin Jenkins is an independent consultancy service. --- Section Separator --- You were invited to do the survey if you arrived in New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021 and you were 18 years or over. Your name was selected to complete the survey because you arrived in New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021. You provided your contact details to the Government on arrival into New Zealand. As an agent of MBIE, Martin Jenkins Ltd were given your name and email address to contact you to complete this survey. Your completion of the survey was voluntary. --- Section Separator --- The survey took about 12 minutes to complete, and participants could do it on a computer/laptop, tablet or smartphone. This survey is now closed and no further respondents will be contacted to participate. --- Section Separator --- Your answers have been combined with the answers from other people who have completed the survey. Because your answers are grouped with others, you cannot be identified. However, if you agreed to take part in further research, your contact details were sent to the research team at MBIE. This information will be held securely by MBIE, and will be deleted after 12 months. Martin Jenkins Ltd will delete your name and contact details after it has sent them to MBIE. The lead agencies and any researchers working with the data cannot access any identifying information about you or other survey participants. The survey data will be held in the Stats NZ Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI) secure environment and no information will be published in a form that could identify individuals. Stats NZ may link the information to other data sources for research or statistical purposes only. How Stats NZ keeps IDI data safe and anonymous (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have any questions about this survey, email Martin Jenkins Ltd at matthew.fanselow@martinjenkins.co.nz If you would like to contact someone at MBIE about this survey, email the MBIE research team at NZarrivals.survey@mbie.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- MBIE has published the final results for arrivals into New Zealand between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021. The Survey of New Zealand Arrivals collected data on the characteristics and intentions of those arriving in Aotearoa New Zealand during the COVID-19 border restrictions. Results from the Survey of New Zealand Arrivals: Findings for arrivals between 1 August 2020 and 1 April 2021 [PDF, 917 KB] --- Section Separator --- The survey is now complete and this is the final reporting of high-level data for all arrivals during the survey period. Further Māori-focused results will be available in November 2021. --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Quarantine-free travel Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Some people do not need an NZeTA or transit visa. Immigration NZ explains who needs an NZeTA or transit visa, and who can transit New Zealand without one. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You can transit New Zealand to or from Australia. Flight availability may be limited — check with your airline if flights are available. You must meet all requirements for transiting New Zealand. Check what you need to do | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must also meet all requirements for your final destination. These may include valid visas to enter the country, negative pre-departure test results and proof of vaccination. Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. What you need to do depends on if you’re entering New Zealand: for 24 to 72 hours, or for longer than 72 hours, but less than 14 days. What to do if you are staying in NZ longer than 24 hours | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you are transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you are travelling though and your final destination. You will not be able to transit New Zealand if you do not meet all requirements. If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you need to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 before flying to New Zealand. If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, then you must be fully vaccinated. This applies even though you are staying "airside" and you do not go through Customs. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Some people do not need an NZeTA or transit visa. Immigration NZ explains who needs an NZeTA or transit visa, and who can transit New Zealand without one. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can transit New Zealand to or from Australia. Flight availability may be limited — check with your airline if flights are available. You must meet all requirements for transiting New Zealand. Check what you need to do | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You must also meet all requirements for your final destination. These may include valid visas to enter the country, negative pre-departure test results and proof of vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. What you need to do depends on if you’re entering New Zealand: for 24 to 72 hours, or for longer than 72 hours, but less than 14 days. What to do if you are staying in NZ longer than 24 hours | miq.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you are transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you are travelling though and your final destination. You will not be able to transit New Zealand if you do not meet all requirements. --- Section Separator --- If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you need to be fully vaccinated for COVID-19 before flying to New Zealand. If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, then you must be fully vaccinated. This applies even though you are staying "airside" and you do not go through Customs. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Quarantine-free travel Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel International travel and transit Travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Our phased border reopening will be delayed to the end of February 2022. This is to help keep Omicron out of our community. By delaying our border opening to the end of February, more New Zealanders will become eligible for a booster dose, and our tamariki (children) aged 5 to 11 years old will have started to get vaccinated. Changes to our reopening plan The New Zealand borders are closed to many travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Travel restrictions apply to all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. Most people who are not New Zealand citizens or residents must get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to request to travel. Anyone arriving in New Zealand by air or sea must be eligible to enter New Zealand. Check your eligibility to travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries. Travelling quarantine-free means you do not have to enter managed isolation. Normal immigration rules apply for quarantine-free travel. Travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from some countries There are exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector | health.govt.nz (external link) Most people must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test result before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to get pre-departure tests. Requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before flying to New Zealand. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand If you are returning to New Zealand, you legally must complete a stay in MIQ for 10 days , unless you are arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine Quarantine-free travel allows you to travel to and enter countries that are participating in a quarantine-free travel arrangement without needing to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive. Quarantine-free travel International transit through New Zealand If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- Our phased border reopening will be delayed to the end of February 2022. This is to help keep Omicron out of our community. By delaying our border opening to the end of February, more New Zealanders will become eligible for a booster dose, and our tamariki (children) aged 5 to 11 years old will have started to get vaccinated. Changes to our reopening plan --- Section Separator --- The New Zealand borders are closed to many travellers to help stop the spread of COVID-19. Travel restrictions apply to all arrivals into New Zealand by air or sea. Most people who are not New Zealand citizens or residents must get approval from Immigration NZ before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to request to travel. Anyone arriving in New Zealand by air or sea must be eligible to enter New Zealand. Check your eligibility to travel to New Zealand at Immigration NZ. Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand has quarantine-free travel arrangements with some countries. Travelling quarantine-free means you do not have to enter managed isolation. Normal immigration rules apply for quarantine-free travel. Travel quarantine-free to New Zealand from some countries There are exceptions for some vessels. These include cargo ships, fishing vessels unloading catch, and ships coming from Antarctica. Guidance for the maritime sector | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test result before travelling to New Zealand. Some people do not need to get pre-departure tests. Requirements for pre-departure testing for travellers to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you are not a New Zealand citizen, you must meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before flying to New Zealand. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you are returning to New Zealand, you legally must complete a stay in MIQ for 10 days , unless you are arriving under quarantine-free travel. You will also be tested for COVID-19 during your stay in a facility. Managed isolation and quarantine --- Section Separator --- Quarantine-free travel allows you to travel to and enter countries that are participating in a quarantine-free travel arrangement without needing to enter managed isolation or quarantine when you arrive. Quarantine-free travel --- Section Separator --- International transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Quarantine-free travel Managed isolation and quarantine (MIQ) Transit through New Zealand Leaving New Zealand Survey of New Zealand Arrivals
Home Travel Travel advice for Auckland Information about travelling across the Auckland boundary from 15 December 2021. --- Section Separator --- Auckland is at Orange in the traffic light settings. Between 15 December 2021 and 17 January 2022, you can travel into and out of Auckland for any reason, but you must follow some restrictions to leave the Auckland boundary. When leaving Auckland, no matter how long you have been inside the boundary: you must have your My Vaccine Pass with you, or you must carry evidence of a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than 72 hours before crossing the boundary. Port Waikato is included in the boundary with Auckland, and travellers across the boundary must follow the same rules. --- Section Separator --- Free rapid antigen tests are available at selected community pharmacies from 15 December 2021 to 31 January 2022. The tests are available for travellers leaving Auckland who: are not fully vaccinated, and are over the age of 12 years and 3 months, and do not have COVID-19 symptoms. Find a community pharmacy or testing centre (external link) About free rapid antigen tests The Government requires most workers crossing the Auckland boundary to get tested for COVID-19. Testing for workers crossing the Auckland boundary --- Section Separator --- From 18 January 2022, there will be no restrictions on travel out of Auckland. When travelling into a different setting area, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. Travel at Orange Travel at Red
