Day 0 is the day your symptoms started, or when you tested positive — whichever came first. What you need to know Pre-departure tests to enter NZ Travelling to New Zealand How to self-isolate Household Contacts Close Contacts Latest case numbers Posters Information for disabled people Alternate formats --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Winter is just around the corner and with it, a risk of catching COVID-19 again. See the latest guidance. Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand is at the Orange traffic light setting. Learn what we all need to do. Face masks protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. When you should get a test, what you need to do, and how to report your RAT results. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand is at the Orange traffic light setting. Learn what we all need to do. Face masks protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. When you should get a test, what you need to do, and how to report your RAT results. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. You might be interested in International travel vaccination certificates How to use My Covid Record Get a booster About Novavax Vaccine advice for disabled people COVID-19 vaccine data --- Section Separator --- Find out about how to book your vaccination, walk-in and drive-through vaccination centres, booster doses, and what to expect when you get your vaccination. Find information about COVID-19 vaccination for businesses and workers, including border and MIQ workers. Discover NZ Vaccine Facts, learn about vaccine development, safety and effectiveness, and find resources to download and share. --- Section Separator --- Nanogirl: The COVID-19 vaccine explained, for kids Boosters and Omicron — Your questions answered Dr Jin Russell — 4 reasons to get tamariki immunised against COVID-19 Dr Owen Sinclair — The risks and benefits of immunisation for children Jaki's story — Vaccinating people with needle phobias Dr Nikki Turner — Vaccines and pregnancy --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 The COVID-19 vaccine protects your child, your whānau and your community. It is free and available now for everyone aged 5 and over. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. Like adults, if your child is infected with COVID-19 they may transmit the virus to other people. Immunising tamariki helps protect whānau members whose health makes them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Dr Jin Russell — 4 reasons to get tamariki immunised against COVID-19 Dr Owen Sinclair — The risks and benefits of immunising tamariki Dr Pete Watson — How immunising tamariki helps protect your community --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children and young people who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. Learn more about the effects of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Tamariki aged 5 to 11 can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. They will receive a children’s (paediatric) version of the Pfizer vaccine, with a lower dose and smaller volume. It is also given using a smaller needle. The lower dose was chosen based on a trial that showed the lower dose was safe and had few side effects in this age group. Children are not eligible for a booster or the AstraZeneca vaccine. To be fully protected, children need 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine. We recommend the first and second dose are at least 8 weeks apart. The interval can be shortened to a minimum of 21 days if needed — for example, if the child is starting significant immunosuppression treatment. You will need to discuss this with the child's doctor. A responsible adult needs to accompany the child to their appointment(s). This can be a parent, an adult family member, trusted family friend, legal power of attorney, or whanaungatanga carer. Consent for vaccination needs to be given by a legal guardian of the child. If the adult who accompanies the child to the appointment is not the child’s legal guardian: the vaccinator will need to verbally confirm by phone with a legal guardian that they consent to the child being vaccinated, or the responsible adult can bring a signed copy of the COVID-19 vaccination consent form completed by a guardian. This is standard consenting process. COVID-19 vaccination consent form [PDF, 227 KB] --- Section Separator --- If children and young people who have been vaccinated do develop COVID-19, they are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. For children aged 5 to 11, clinical trial results showed the Pfizer vaccine was 90.7% effective against getting COVID-19 symptoms, and no participants developed severe COVID-19. Dr Lily Fraser — effects of COVID-19 on tamariki Dr Jin Russell — How safe is the vaccination for tamariki? --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is responsible for approving the use of all medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. They only approve a vaccine in Aotearoa once they are satisfied it has met strict standards for safety, efficacy and quality. The trials in 5 to 11-year-olds with a child dose of the Pfizer showed the vaccine was safe, and the side effects were generally mild. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine Research and data on vaccinating children aged 5-11 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Explain that it might hurt for a short time, just like their other childhood immunisations. Tell them there will be a small needle and that they will feel a sharp scratch or sting briefly but then it will be over. They may have a sore arm, fever, headache or feel tired afterwards. It is important to tell them why they are getting vaccinated. Let them know the vaccine will protect them against COVID-19, and protect their family, their grandparents, their community, and other kids at school who may be more at risk from COVID-19 if they catch it. Make sure they know they will need 2 doses. Give them time to ask the vaccinator questions if they have them. Have some games or toys ready so you can distract them during their vaccination and entertain them while you wait for 15 minutes afterwards. Arrange a fun activity or treat to look forward to after the appointment. Tell them that they might feel a bit unwell or a day or two, and arrange to spend some extra time with them if you can. What to expect after your child's vaccination [PDF, 260 KB] --- Section Separator --- Nanogirl: The COVID-19 vaccine explained, for kids Dr Lily talks with tamariki about vaccines Dr Teuila Percival — Explaining the COVID-19 vaccine to children --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand that offer vaccinations for tamariki. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Check the appointment availability map first — it shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. You can choose the child vaccine (5-11s) or adult vaccine (12+) from the dropdown menu. Appointment availability map (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz 0800 28 29 26 It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. It is a good idea to have your child's NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. How to find an NHI number (external link) There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. Not all COVID-19 vaccination sites will be offering vaccinations to 5 to 11-year-olds. Find a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre near you --- Section Separator --- If you would like to talk through any questions or worries, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The COVID Vaccination Healthline team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori communities | Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination | Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination If you have a health condition --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. Learn more about COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people — Ministry of Health (external link) If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). You can get a free Pfizer booster if: you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 6 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Get your vaccine booster Most people are well protected against becoming very sick from COVID-19 if they have had two doses, plus a booster if they are eligible. A second booster dose may be beneficial for those most at-risk of serious illness from COVID-19. We are currently working through eligibility criteria for a second booster, and how long after the first booster it would be given. We will provide further updates as decisions are made If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine. What the AstraZeneca vaccine contains What is in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. --- Section Separator --- If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. Learn more about COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). You can get a free Pfizer booster if: you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 6 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Get your vaccine booster Most people are well protected against becoming very sick from COVID-19 if they have had two doses, plus a booster if they are eligible. A second booster dose may be beneficial for those most at-risk of serious illness from COVID-19. We are currently working through eligibility criteria for a second booster, and how long after the first booster it would be given. We will provide further updates as decisions are made --- Section Separator --- If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine. What the AstraZeneca vaccine contains What is in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered NZ Vaccine Facts About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines How to get a vaccination Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Rangatahi aged 16 or 17 can get a COVID-19 booster 6 months after completing their primary course. You can go into any walk-in vaccination site without booking, or you can book your booster through Book My Vaccine. If you have had COVID-19, you should wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. You can have a COVID-19 booster at the same time as your free flu vaccine. You do not need to leave a gap between these vaccines. Being up-to-date with all your vaccinations gives you the best possible protection. Check the vaccination site is able to administer both before you arrive. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you have already booked your booster dose with a 4 month gap, you can keep your original appointment, or change it. You can get a free Pfizer booster now if: you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 6 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). To find out how long it has been since your second dose: view your vaccination records on My Covid Record (external link) call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 Visit a walk-in vaccination centre: Find a vaccination centre Book over the phone: 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). Book online through Book My Vaccine (external link) . When you arrive for your booster, the date of your last vaccination will be checked in the COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). We are encouraging everyone who is eligible to get a free booster now. Current evidence shows your protection against infection after 2 doses slowly decreases over time. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. A booster also helps reduce the chance of more serious infection, and it will be less likely that you need hospitalisation. About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are pregnant and aged 16 years or older, it is recommended you receive a booster of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect you and your baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get it at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get it after 6 months . You should discuss the timing of a booster with your midwife, obstetrician or general practitioner. Vaccine advice if you are pregnant or breastfeeding If you have tested positive for COVID-19 but you still need a booster dose, we recommend you wait at least 3 months after you have recovered to get your booster. Waiting 3 months provides an increased immune response and better protection if you become re-infected with COVID-19. The best timing for the booster dose may be different for everyone. We recommend you speak to your doctor or Heathline on 0800 358 5453 for advice before you get your booster. The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People 18 or over who are eligible for a third primary dose, can access a booster dose 3 months after receiving their third primary dose. If you are 16 or 17, you need to wait 6 months until you can get your booster dose. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition Most people are well protected against becoming very sick from COVID-19 if they’ve had two doses, plus a booster if they’re eligible. A second booster dose may be beneficial for those most at-risk of serious illness from COVID-19. We are currently working through eligibility criteria for a second booster, and how long after the first booster it would be given. We will provide further updates as decisions are made. The Pfizer vaccine is the main vaccine being used in New Zealand for boosters, even if you had a different vaccine for your earlier doses. If you are 16 or 17, you can only get the Pfizer booster. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine An AstraZeneca booster is now available 3 months after the second dose for those aged 18 or over, but you will need a prescription. You can get a prescription before your appointment with your preferred doctor, or from a vaccinating AstraZeneca clinic — however not all clinics will be able to provide a prescription . It is free to visit the doctor for an AstraZeneca booster prescription. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. Side effects The Vaccination Order makes it mandatory for workers in critical workforces to also receive a booster dose. The timeframes for workers to get a booster still remains the same. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- Rangatahi aged 16 or 17 can get a COVID-19 booster 6 months after completing their primary course. You can go into any walk-in vaccination site without booking, or you can book your booster through Book My Vaccine. If you have had COVID-19, you should wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. You can have a COVID-19 booster at the same time as your free flu vaccine. You do not need to leave a gap between these vaccines. Being up-to-date with all your vaccinations gives you the best possible protection. Check the vaccination site is able to administer both before you arrive. --- Section Separator --- You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you have already booked your booster dose with a 4 month gap, you can keep your original appointment, or change it. You can get a free Pfizer booster now if: you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 6 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). To find out how long it has been since your second dose: view your vaccination records on My Covid Record (external link) call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- Visit a walk-in vaccination centre: Find a vaccination centre Book over the phone: 0800 28 29 26 (8am to 8pm, 7 days a week). Book online through Book My Vaccine (external link) . When you arrive for your booster, the date of your last vaccination will be checked in the COVID Immunisation Register (CIR). --- Section Separator --- We are encouraging everyone who is eligible to get a free booster now. Current evidence shows your protection against infection after 2 doses slowly decreases over time. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. A booster also helps reduce the chance of more serious infection, and it will be less likely that you need hospitalisation. About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are pregnant and aged 16 years or older, it is recommended you receive a booster of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect you and your baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get it at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get it after 6 months . You should discuss the timing of a booster with your midwife, obstetrician or general practitioner. Vaccine advice if you are pregnant or breastfeeding If you have tested positive for COVID-19 but you still need a booster dose, we recommend you wait at least 3 months after you have recovered to get your booster. Waiting 3 months provides an increased immune response and better protection if you become re-infected with COVID-19. The best timing for the booster dose may be different for everyone. We recommend you speak to your doctor or Heathline on 0800 358 5453 for advice before you get your booster. The booster is different to the third primary dose recommended for people who are immunocompromised. People 18 or over who are eligible for a third primary dose, can access a booster dose 3 months after receiving their third primary dose. If you are 16 or 17, you need to wait 6 months until you can get your booster dose. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition Most people are well protected against becoming very sick from COVID-19 if they’ve had two doses, plus a booster if they’re eligible. A second booster dose may be beneficial for those most at-risk of serious illness from COVID-19. We are currently working through eligibility criteria for a second booster, and how long after the first booster it would be given. We will provide further updates as decisions are made. --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is the main vaccine being used in New Zealand for boosters, even if you had a different vaccine for your earlier doses. If you are 16 or 17, you can only get the Pfizer booster. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine An AstraZeneca booster is now available 3 months after the second dose for those aged 18 or over, but you will need a prescription. You can get a prescription before your appointment with your preferred doctor, or from a vaccinating AstraZeneca clinic — however not all clinics will be able to provide a prescription . It is free to visit the doctor for an AstraZeneca booster prescription. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. Side effects --- Section Separator --- The Vaccination Order makes it mandatory for workers in critical workforces to also receive a booster dose. The timeframes for workers to get a booster still remains the same. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination Get your second dose Get your vaccine booster What to expect when you get your vaccination
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- Some vaccine mandates for workers have been removed. Government vaccine mandates will now only apply to workplaces that support vulnerable populations , or who work in high-risk environments where spread would be rapid or exposure to new variants is high. These workplaces will need to continue to require their workers to be vaccinated and boosted. Wo rkers that are still covered by a government vaccine mandate include : Health and disability sector workers — including aged care workers Prison staff Border and MIQ workers Certain roles within the following workforces may also be captured by government vaccine mandates, if they are working in an environment where a mandate is required — for example, alongside paramedics or other health workers. NZ Police NZ Defence Force Fire and Emergency New Zealand. Workers covered by a government vaccine mandate are required to be vaccinated because they come into close contact with people who are likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. Border workers , i ncluding those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports must be vaccinated because they are likely to be exposed to new variants. COVID-19 booster vaccinations are also mandated for workforces covered by the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (Vaccinations Order). This means workers in these sectors must get a booster 6 months (183 days) after they complete their primary vaccination course. If eligible, we recommend you get your booster after 3 months. You must be 18 years or older to receive a booster dose. If you are under 18 years old and have had your primary vaccination course, you can continue to work. 8 vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for workers who fall under a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination order. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) Novavax (Nuvaxovid, NVX-CoC2373) Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) — only 1 dose is required for this vaccine. For all other vaccines, the primary course of vaccination means 2 doses. If you have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, you will need to have a second dose. You are able to get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as your second dose. Novavax is only approved as a primary course of vaccination and not as a booster dose. However, the Novavax vaccine is available as a booster on prescription from an approved health professional. Workers may be able to get an exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Depending on the type of work done, there are different exemption grounds that may apply. For example, for an exemption on medical grounds, workers will need to apply to the Ministry of Health. Exemptions for border and MIQ workers | transport.govt.nz (external link) Medical exemptions for workers who have recently recovered from COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) Exemptions for the border, health and prison workers | health.govt.nz (external link) If your employees are not covered by the vaccine mandate, you can choose if you want to require your employees to be fully vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccinations can only be used as a measure if the risk of contracting and transmitting COVID-19 at work is higher than it is in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read the guidance on Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand for advice. COVID-19 controls at work – employer vaccination requirements | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) Find out where and how to get your COVID-19 vaccination and booster dose. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Some vaccine mandates for workers have been removed. Government vaccine mandates will now only apply to workplaces that support vulnerable populations , or who work in high-risk environments where spread would be rapid or exposure to new variants is high. These workplaces will need to continue to require their workers to be vaccinated and boosted. --- Section Separator --- Wo rkers that are still covered by a government vaccine mandate include : Health and disability sector workers — including aged care workers Prison staff Border and MIQ workers Certain roles within the following workforces may also be captured by government vaccine mandates, if they are working in an environment where a mandate is required — for example, alongside paramedics or other health workers. NZ Police NZ Defence Force Fire and Emergency New Zealand. Workers covered by a government vaccine mandate are required to be vaccinated because they come into close contact with people who are likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. Border workers , i ncluding those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports must be vaccinated because they are likely to be exposed to new variants. COVID-19 booster vaccinations are also mandated for workforces covered by the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (Vaccinations Order). This means workers in these sectors must get a booster 6 months (183 days) after they complete their primary vaccination course. If eligible, we recommend you get your booster after 3 months. You must be 18 years or older to receive a booster dose. If you are under 18 years old and have had your primary vaccination course, you can continue to work. --- Section Separator --- 8 vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for workers who fall under a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination order. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) Novavax (Nuvaxovid, NVX-CoC2373) Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) — only 1 dose is required for this vaccine. For all other vaccines, the primary course of vaccination means 2 doses. If you have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, you will need to have a second dose. You are able to get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as your second dose. Novavax is only approved as a primary course of vaccination and not as a booster dose. However, the Novavax vaccine is available as a booster on prescription from an approved health professional. --- Section Separator --- Workers may be able to get an exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Depending on the type of work done, there are different exemption grounds that may apply. For example, for an exemption on medical grounds, workers will need to apply to the Ministry of Health. Exemptions for border and MIQ workers | transport.govt.nz (external link) Medical exemptions for workers who have recently recovered from COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) Exemptions for the border, health and prison workers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your employees are not covered by the vaccine mandate, you can choose if you want to require your employees to be fully vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccinations can only be used as a measure if the risk of contracting and transmitting COVID-19 at work is higher than it is in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read the guidance on Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand for advice. COVID-19 controls at work – employer vaccination requirements | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find out where and how to get your COVID-19 vaccination and booster dose. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- How to get a vaccination Vaccinations and work Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination Vaccine passes and certificates
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine passes and certificates Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. --- Section Separator --- The Government no longer requires My Vaccine Pass to be used to access businesses, events and services. Businesses can still choose to require My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry if there are health and safety reasons for doing so. Some workers are still required to be vaccinated. Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- There are 3 official records you can use as proof of your vaccination status. They are My Vaccine Pass, My Vaccine Record, and an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. You can use My Covid Record to access your COVID-19 vaccination records, view your COVID-19 test results, and report a rapid antigen test (RAT) result. --- Section Separator --- There are 3 official records you can use as proof of your vaccination status. They are My Vaccine Pass, My Vaccine Record, and an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. You can use My Covid Record to access your COVID-19 vaccination records, view your COVID-19 test results, and report a rapid antigen test (RAT) result.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine passes and certificates Proof of your vaccination status --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to show proof of your vaccinations: My Vaccine Pass — you can use this as proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status within Aotearoa New Zealand. My Vaccine Pass is a QR code which you can add to a digital wallet on your phone. My Vaccine Record — which has more detailed information about your COVID-19 vaccinations. It includes batch numbers, dose number, vaccine type and any overseas vaccinations that have been added to your health record. International Travel Vaccination Certificate — you can use this as proof for travel overseas. If you are travelling overseas and you need to provide proof of your vaccination status, you will need an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of a COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can request one. The details on your International Travel Vaccination Certificate must match your passport. You can review your personal details when you request the certificate. These certificates comply with EU Digital COVID Certificate standards. You will also need to meet all immigration and entry requirements for the country you are travelling to, for example some countries may also require proof of a negative pre-departure test. Before travelling, check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Your International Travel Vaccination Certificate will have a QR code that will be scanned when you are travelling. It will include details of the COVID-19 vaccinations you have had administered in New Zealand. You can save this certificate on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. This certificate is valid for 12 months. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate We also recommend downloading a copy of your vaccination records that you can use alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. About My Vaccine Record If you have been granted a temporary medical exemption from receiving COVID-19 vaccinations in New Zealand, these are valid in New Zealand. If you want to apply for an International Travel Vaccination Certificate for international travel, this will only show the COVID-19 vaccinations that you have had and not your temporary medical exemption. If you are planning to travel internationally, you will need to check the requirements of both the airline you plan to travel with and the country you are travelling to, about their COVID-19 vaccine requirements, exemption policies and processes. My Vaccine Pass is a domestic record of COVID-19 vaccinations that you might be asked to show within New Zealand. In April 2022 the legal requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Passes was removed. Some businesses may voluntarily keep My Vaccine Pass requirements as a condition of entry. For this reason, it is a good idea to have an up-to-date My Vaccine Pass handy in case you are asked for it. All current My Vaccine Passes expire on 1 June 2022, or earlier, depending on when it was first requested. From 24 May, an updated My Vaccine Pass will be available for anyone aged 12 and over who is up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccinations, as well as those with a temporary medical exemption. The updated My Vaccine Pass will have a slightly different look to the current version with a different colour and a few updates to design. It will still have a QR code. New My Vaccine Passes will be valid for 6 months. You can request a new pass for yourself or someone else: through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 28 29 26 by visiting a participating vaccination site. From 31 May you will be able to get a temporary My Vaccine Pass if: Businesses can choose to require people to show their My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry. It is up to each business to decide what is appropriate, taking into account the health and safety of their workers and customers. Businesses can do this as long as: they do not breach any contractual restrictions, for example in a lease or under a franchise agreement they do not ask for My Vaccine Pass in settings that are currently prohibited from doing so, for example supermarkets, pharmacies, public transport and education services. This is to ensure everyone can continue to access these key services. Businesses can also continue to use the NZ Pass Verifier app to check My Vaccine Passes. Requiring My Vaccine Pass for entry | business.govt.nz (external link) More information about NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) Businesses cannot ask children under 12 years and 3 months for a My Vaccine Pass. My Vaccine Record is a document which shows all the COVID-19 vaccinations you have had that are recorded on the Covid Immunisation Register (CIR). It includes details of your primary and booster doses. It can be used: as evidence of your vaccinations if required by an employer, including under the New Zealand vaccine mandate alongside your International Travel Certificate. My Vaccine Record cannot be used instead of a My Vaccine Pass or an International Travel Certificate if you are going overseas. More information about My Vaccine Record | health.govt.nz (external link) There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass, My Vaccine Record or International Travel Vaccination Certificate : online through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 222 478 in person at a participating vaccination site. 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the ‘Passes and certificates’ section, select ‘Request pass or certificate’. 3. The ‘Select who this pass or certificate is for’ will open. Select either ‘Myself’ or ‘Someone else’. 4. The ‘Select a pass or certificate’ option will appear. Select ‘My Vaccine Pass' or ‘International Travel Vaccination Certificate.' 5. You will then be prompted to enter details including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your My Vaccine Pass by email within 24 hours. 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. Select 'Get a copy of your vaccinations'. 3. You will then be prompted to enter your email address. Your Vaccine Record will be emailed to you within 24 hours. How to use My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to show proof of your vaccinations: My Vaccine Pass — you can use this as proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status within Aotearoa New Zealand. My Vaccine Pass is a QR code which you can add to a digital wallet on your phone. My Vaccine Record — which has more detailed information about your COVID-19 vaccinations. It includes batch numbers, dose number, vaccine type and any overseas vaccinations that have been added to your health record. International Travel Vaccination Certificate — you can use this as proof for travel overseas. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling overseas and you need to provide proof of your vaccination status, you will need an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of a COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can request one. The details on your International Travel Vaccination Certificate must match your passport. You can review your personal details when you request the certificate. These certificates comply with EU Digital COVID Certificate standards. You will also need to meet all immigration and entry requirements for the country you are travelling to, for example some countries may also require proof of a negative pre-departure test. Before travelling, check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Your International Travel Vaccination Certificate will have a QR code that will be scanned when you are travelling. It will include details of the COVID-19 vaccinations you have had administered in New Zealand. You can save this certificate on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. This certificate is valid for 12 months. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate We also recommend downloading a copy of your vaccination records that you can use alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. About My Vaccine Record If you have been granted a temporary medical exemption from receiving COVID-19 vaccinations in New Zealand, these are valid in New Zealand. If you want to apply for an International Travel Vaccination Certificate for international travel, this will only show the COVID-19 vaccinations that you have had and not your temporary medical exemption. If you are planning to travel internationally, you will need to check the requirements of both the airline you plan to travel with and the country you are travelling to, about their COVID-19 vaccine requirements, exemption policies and processes. --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is a domestic record of COVID-19 vaccinations that you might be asked to show within New Zealand. In April 2022 the legal requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Passes was removed. Some businesses may voluntarily keep My Vaccine Pass requirements as a condition of entry. For this reason, it is a good idea to have an up-to-date My Vaccine Pass handy in case you are asked for it. All current My Vaccine Passes expire on 1 June 2022, or earlier, depending on when it was first requested. From 24 May, an updated My Vaccine Pass will be available for anyone aged 12 and over who is up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccinations, as well as those with a temporary medical exemption. The updated My Vaccine Pass will have a slightly different look to the current version with a different colour and a few updates to design. It will still have a QR code. New My Vaccine Passes will be valid for 6 months. You can request a new pass for yourself or someone else: through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 28 29 26 by visiting a participating vaccination site. From 31 May you will be able to get a temporary My Vaccine Pass if: --- Section Separator --- Businesses can choose to require people to show their My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry. It is up to each business to decide what is appropriate, taking into account the health and safety of their workers and customers. Businesses can do this as long as: they do not breach any contractual restrictions, for example in a lease or under a franchise agreement they do not ask for My Vaccine Pass in settings that are currently prohibited from doing so, for example supermarkets, pharmacies, public transport and education services. This is to ensure everyone can continue to access these key services. Businesses can also continue to use the NZ Pass Verifier app to check My Vaccine Passes. Requiring My Vaccine Pass for entry | business.govt.nz (external link) More information about NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) Businesses cannot ask children under 12 years and 3 months for a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Record is a document which shows all the COVID-19 vaccinations you have had that are recorded on the Covid Immunisation Register (CIR). It includes details of your primary and booster doses. It can be used: as evidence of your vaccinations if required by an employer, including under the New Zealand vaccine mandate alongside your International Travel Certificate. My Vaccine Record cannot be used instead of a My Vaccine Pass or an International Travel Certificate if you are going overseas. More information about My Vaccine Record | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass, My Vaccine Record or International Travel Vaccination Certificate : online through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 222 478 in person at a participating vaccination site. 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the ‘Passes and certificates’ section, select ‘Request pass or certificate’. 3. The ‘Select who this pass or certificate is for’ will open. Select either ‘Myself’ or ‘Someone else’. 4. The ‘Select a pass or certificate’ option will appear. Select ‘My Vaccine Pass' or ‘International Travel Vaccination Certificate.' 5. You will then be prompted to enter details including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your My Vaccine Pass by email within 24 hours. 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. Select 'Get a copy of your vaccinations'. 3. You will then be prompted to enter your email address. Your Vaccine Record will be emailed to you within 24 hours. How to use My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- Proof of your vaccination status How to use My Covid Record
Home International travel Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. What you need to know Travel to New Zealand Complete your traveller declaration Travel with Australia International Travel Vaccination Certificate If you are a visitor to New Zealand and test positive after 7 days --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. New Zealand's borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. Information for travellers transiting through New Zealand. Advice for New Zealanders and residents in New Zealand who want to travel overseas. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. New Zealand's borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. Information for travellers transiting through New Zealand. Advice for New Zealanders and residents in New Zealand who want to travel overseas. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home International travel How to enter New Zealand New Zealand's borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. --- Section Separator --- Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand. Travellers from some Pacific Islands do not need a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand or self-test on arrival. Information on how to enter New Zealand if you are travelling from Asia, Africa, Europe, North America or South America.
Home International travel How to enter New Zealand Travel with Australia Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Vaccinated Australian citizens and permanent residents can now enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. Vaccinated visitors from visa waiver countries, and visitors from other countries who already hold a valid visitor visa can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. Visa waiver countries and territories | immigration.govt.nz (external link) All travellers from Australia must have a negative pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. There are very few exceptions. Travellers will also be required to self-test on arrival. Pre-departure testing requirements currently apply until 31 July 2022. The Government has indicated that pre-departure testing requirements may be removed before this date. Pre-departure testing requirements --- Section Separator --- Before you travel, read our step-by-step guide to help you get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand, and find out what to expect at the airport and after you arrive in New Zealand. Preparing to travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you want to travel from Australia, you must be eligible to enter New Zealand. Check now to see if you can travel. Who can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand and Australian citizens do not need one. Apply for an NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Read Immigration NZ's guidance for Australian citizens and permanent residents. Advice for Australian citizens and permanent residents who want to enter New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. This includes people who begin their journey in New Zealand to travel to Australia, and then return to New Zealand — no matter how long you are in Australia for. You need a test even if you have been vaccinated for COVID-19, have recently recovered from  COVID-19 or if you are self-testing on arrival. Plan when to get your test and results as they must be: no more than 24 hours before you depart if you have a supervised RAT or supervised LAMP test, or no more than 48 hours before you depart if you have a PCR test. If you are making a short visit to Australia, this may mean you have to get a test soon after you arrive in Australia. If your pre-departure test documentation does not contain the required information, or is not in the required format, you may be prevented from boarding your flight to New Zealand. Pre-departure testing requirements to enter New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You do not need to be vaccinated. You can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. How to travel to New Zealand when you are self-testing after arrival If you are not a New Zealand citizen or resident and you are aged 17 years or over, you must be vaccinated with approved vaccines to enter New Zealand. You will need to provide proof of your vaccination status. Some people are exempt from the vaccination requirements. Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand If you do not meet the vaccination requirements, you will not be able to enter New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. You can start your declaration 28 days before you travel. You will need to provide: your passport details flight information proof of vaccination — if you are not a New Zealand citizen or resident, or an Australian citizen who lives in New Zealand proof of a negative pre-departure test (if you need one) your travel history for the last 14 days your contact details in New Zealand emergency contact details. You should submit your declaration as soon as you have your pre-departure test result, so there is time to verify and review your documents before your flight. You need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- You will be given a welcome pack at Biosecurity once you have gone through Customs. Your welcome pack has: rapid antigen test (RAT) kits a guide to testing. Take your RAT test as instructed on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. You must report your RATs results — even if they are negative. You will receive an email with details on how to report your RATs results into the New Zealand health system. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- All visa holders who are fully vaccinated for international travel purposes can travel to Australia without a travel exemption. Unvaccinated visa holders will still need to be in an exempt category or hold an individual travel exemption to enter Australia. Everyone travelling to Australia by air must complete the Digital Passenger Declaration. Travelling to Australia | australia.gov.au (external link) More information about the Digital Passenger Declaration (external link)
Home International travel How to enter New Zealand Travel with the Pacific Islands --- Section Separator --- From 16 May 2022, travellers from some Pacific countries can apply for a visitor visa to enter New Zealand. You can find more information on the Immigration NZ site. Travelling from the Pacific Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Before you travel, read our step-by-step guide to help you get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand, and find out what to expect at the airport and after you arrive in New Zealand. Preparing to travel to New Zealand New Zealand's borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. People coming from most Pacific countries need to be eligible to travel here. Eligible travellers include: New Zealand citizens or residents Australian citizens or permanent residents people who have a border exception, or people who are exempt from the border restrictions. If you are not sure if you can enter New Zealand, find out at Immigration NZ: Travelling from the Pacific islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand and Australian citizens do not need one. Apply for an NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are aged 17 years or over, and you are not a New Zealand citizen, resident, or an Australian citizen who lives in New Zealand — you must be vaccinated with an approved vaccine to enter New Zealand. Some airlines may have additional vaccination requirements. Check with your airline before you fly. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Use this tool to find out if you need a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. If you are travelling from a country where you do not need to self-test on arrival in New Zealand, you must meet the following conditions to travel to New Zealand: You must have been in your country of origin or another Pacific country from which travellers to New Zealand are not required to self-test on arrival, including New Zealand, for at least 14 days before you travel. If this is not possible, you will be required to self-test for COVID-19 when you arrive. If you transit any other country and go landside on your way to New Zealand, you will be required to meet the public health requirements for travellers from that country. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days, have no COVID-19 symptoms, and are not waiting for a COVID-19 test result. All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. You can start your declaration 28 days before you travel. You will need to provide: your passport details flight information proof of vaccination — if you are required to be vaccinated proof of a negative pre-departure test (if you need one) your travel history for the last 14 days your contact details in New Zealand emergency contact details. You should submit your declaration as soon as you have your pre-departure test result, so there is time to verify and review your documents before your flight. You will need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. If you do not need to get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand, select that you are exempt in the the pre-departure test section of the Traveller Declaration. This will allow you to have your Traveller Pass issued without uploading pre-departure testing documentation. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) (external link) If you are travelling from a country where you do not need to self-test on arrival in New Zealand, you should take a direct flight to New Zealand. If there are no direct flights, you should transit through another Pacific country from which travellers to New Zealand are not required to self-test on arrival. If this is not possible, you will be required to self-test for COVID-19 when you arrive. You must also: have been in your country of origin or another Pacific country from which travellers to New Zealand are not required to self-test on arrival , including New Zealand, for at least 14 days before you travel meet vaccination requirements, and meet all the health requirements for New Zealand arrivals when you get here. Most travellers must take 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) after they arrive in New Zealand. Travellers arriving from Niue do not need to self-test on arrival if they have taken a direct flight to New Zealand. If you are required to self-test on arrival, you will be given a welcome pack at Biosecurity once you have gone through Customs. Your welcome pack has: rapid antigen test (RAT) kits a guide to testing. Take your RAT test as instructed on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. You must report your RATs results — even if they are negative. You will receive an email with details on how to report your RATs results into the New Zealand health system. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand If you want to travel to the Pacific Islands from New Zealand, you will need to: check the immigration requirements of your destination check you meet any vaccination or pre-departure testing requirements If you are unsure if you can travel, contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country you are travelling to. Foreign embassies in New Zealand | mfat.govt.nz (external link) We also encourage you to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice if you are leaving New Zealand You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Normal immigration rules still apply. Check what you need to do to travel to the Cook Islands (external link) Quarantine-free travel between Niue and New Zealand is one-way only. The Government of Niue is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no confirmed date for this yet. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, visit the Niue Government website or email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu More information about Niue border restrictions (external link) --- Section Separator --- From 16 May 2022, travellers from some Pacific countries can apply for a visitor visa to enter New Zealand. You can find more information on the Immigration NZ site. Travelling from the Pacific Islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Before you travel, read our step-by-step guide to help you get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand, and find out what to expect at the airport and after you arrive in New Zealand. Preparing to travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. People coming from most Pacific countries need to be eligible to travel here. Eligible travellers include: New Zealand citizens or residents Australian citizens or permanent residents people who have a border exception, or people who are exempt from the border restrictions. If you are not sure if you can enter New Zealand, find out at Immigration NZ: Travelling from the Pacific islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand and Australian citizens do not need one. Apply for an NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are aged 17 years or over, and you are not a New Zealand citizen, resident, or an Australian citizen who lives in New Zealand — you must be vaccinated with an approved vaccine to enter New Zealand. Some airlines may have additional vaccination requirements. Check with your airline before you fly. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Use this tool to find out if you need a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling from a country where you do not need to self-test on arrival in New Zealand, you must meet the following conditions to travel to New Zealand: You must have been in your country of origin or another Pacific country from which travellers to New Zealand are not required to self-test on arrival, including New Zealand, for at least 14 days before you travel. If this is not possible, you will be required to self-test for COVID-19 when you arrive. If you transit any other country and go landside on your way to New Zealand, you will be required to meet the public health requirements for travellers from that country. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days, have no COVID-19 symptoms, and are not waiting for a COVID-19 test result. --- Section Separator --- All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. You can start your declaration 28 days before you travel. You will need to provide: your passport details flight information proof of vaccination — if you are required to be vaccinated proof of a negative pre-departure test (if you need one) your travel history for the last 14 days your contact details in New Zealand emergency contact details. You should submit your declaration as soon as you have your pre-departure test result, so there is time to verify and review your documents before your flight. You will need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. If you do not need to get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand, select that you are exempt in the the pre-departure test section of the Traveller Declaration. This will allow you to have your Traveller Pass issued without uploading pre-departure testing documentation. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling from a country where you do not need to self-test on arrival in New Zealand, you should take a direct flight to New Zealand. If there are no direct flights, you should transit through another Pacific country from which travellers to New Zealand are not required to self-test on arrival. If this is not possible, you will be required to self-test for COVID-19 when you arrive. You must also: have been in your country of origin or another Pacific country from which travellers to New Zealand are not required to self-test on arrival , including New Zealand, for at least 14 days before you travel meet vaccination requirements, and meet all the health requirements for New Zealand arrivals when you get here. --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must take 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) after they arrive in New Zealand. Travellers arriving from Niue do not need to self-test on arrival if they have taken a direct flight to New Zealand. If you are required to self-test on arrival, you will be given a welcome pack at Biosecurity once you have gone through Customs. Your welcome pack has: rapid antigen test (RAT) kits a guide to testing. Take your RAT test as instructed on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. You must report your RATs results — even if they are negative. You will receive an email with details on how to report your RATs results into the New Zealand health system. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you want to travel to the Pacific Islands from New Zealand, you will need to: check the immigration requirements of your destination check you meet any vaccination or pre-departure testing requirements If you are unsure if you can travel, contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country you are travelling to. Foreign embassies in New Zealand | mfat.govt.nz (external link) We also encourage you to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice if you are leaving New Zealand You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Normal immigration rules still apply. Check what you need to do to travel to the Cook Islands (external link) Quarantine-free travel between Niue and New Zealand is one-way only. The Government of Niue is preparing for quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue, but there is no confirmed date for this yet. The Niue Government must approve all people who want to travel to Niue. To find out if you can travel to Niue from New Zealand, visit the Niue Government website or email Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu More information about Niue border restrictions (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Travelling to New Zealand from outside of Australia and the Pacific Islands
Home International travel How to enter New Zealand Travelling to New Zealand from outside of Australia and the Pacific Islands --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s border is re opening to all tourists and visa holders f rom 11:59pm 31 July 2022. Vaccinated travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa category can apply to enter New Zealand from 4 Jul y 2022 . All other visa categories — including visitor and student visas can apply to enter New Zealand from anywhere in the world from 31 July 2022 . Travellers will still need to meet all health requirements to enter New Zealand, including vaccination requirements and providing proof of a negative pre-departure test. Pre-departure testing requirements currently apply until 31 July 2022. The Government has indicated that pre-departure testing requirements may be removed before this date. Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Before you travel, read our step-by-step guide to help you get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand, and find out what to expect at the airport and after you arrive in New Zealand. Preparing to travel to New Zealand New Zealand borders are reopening throughout 2022. New Zealand citizens and other vaccinated eligible travellers can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Apply for an NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Book an available flight to New Zealand. If you are a New Zealand citizen, it is a good idea to register with SafeTravel at the same time. SafeTravel can check on your wellbeing if needed, or send you important information while you are overseas. Register with SafeTravel (external link) New Zealand citizens, residents and Australian citizens who live in New Zealand do not need to be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. All other travellers aged 17 years and over must be vaccinated with approved vaccines. Unvaccinated children aged 16 years and under can self-test on arrival if they are travelling alone, or with parents or guardians who meet the requirements for self-testing. Some people are exempt from the vaccination requirements. Check the vaccination requirements All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. You can start your declaration 28 days before you travel. You will need to provide: your passport details flight information proof of vaccination — if you are not a New Zealand citizen, resident or Australian citizen who lives in New Zealand proof of a negative pre-departure test (if you need one) your travel history for the last 14 days your contact details in New Zealand emergency contact details. You should submit your declaration as soon as you have your pre-departure test result, so there is time to verify and review your documents before your flight. You will need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. Even if you are self-testing on arrival, you still must get a pre-departure test. You can choose one of the following: a supervised rapid antigen test (RAT) administered no more than 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand, or a supervised loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) test administered no more than 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand, or a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test administered no more than 48 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand. Make sure your pre-departure test documentation meets New Zealand’s standards. Find out more about pre-departure testing requirements You need to have some evidence at the airport. Your documents can be paper or electronic. If they apply to you, you will need your: passport, and your visa ticket for your flight New Zealand Traveller Pass evidence of your vaccination status negative pre-departure test result. You will be asked if you have COVID-19 symptoms by airline staff. Customs will check your: passport and visa (if you need one to enter New Zealand) New Zealand Traveller Pass completed arrival card, and any other entry requirements. Expect some delays as you transit through the airport. Please be kind to airport staff as they are working as quickly and carefully as they can. You will be given your welcome pack at Biosecurity once you have gone through Customs. Your welcome pack has: rapid antigen test (RAT) kits a guide to testing. Take your RAT test as instructed on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6. Children under 6 months do not need to self-test on arrival. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand If you have travelled to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay and test positive after being here for 7 days or longer, you will need to: isolate for 7 days — you should have a plan for this source your own accommodation and pay for this (and meet your other costs) pay for your healthcare costs. If you are a visitor to New Zealand and have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s border is re opening to all tourists and visa holders f rom 11:59pm 31 July 2022. Vaccinated travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa category can apply to enter New Zealand from 4 Jul y 2022 . All other visa categories — including visitor and student visas can apply to enter New Zealand from anywhere in the world from 31 July 2022 . Travellers will still need to meet all health requirements to enter New Zealand, including vaccination requirements and providing proof of a negative pre-departure test. Pre-departure testing requirements currently apply until 31 July 2022. The Government has indicated that pre-departure testing requirements may be removed before this date. Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Before you travel, read our step-by-step guide to help you get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand, and find out what to expect at the airport and after you arrive in New Zealand. Preparing to travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- New Zealand borders are reopening throughout 2022. New Zealand citizens and other vaccinated eligible travellers can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Apply for an NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Book an available flight to New Zealand. If you are a New Zealand citizen, it is a good idea to register with SafeTravel at the same time. SafeTravel can check on your wellbeing if needed, or send you important information while you are overseas. Register with SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand citizens, residents and Australian citizens who live in New Zealand do not need to be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. All other travellers aged 17 years and over must be vaccinated with approved vaccines. Unvaccinated children aged 16 years and under can self-test on arrival if they are travelling alone, or with parents or guardians who meet the requirements for self-testing. Some people are exempt from the vaccination requirements. Check the vaccination requirements --- Section Separator --- All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. You can start your declaration 28 days before you travel. You will need to provide: your passport details flight information proof of vaccination — if you are not a New Zealand citizen, resident or Australian citizen who lives in New Zealand proof of a negative pre-departure test (if you need one) your travel history for the last 14 days your contact details in New Zealand emergency contact details. You should submit your declaration as soon as you have your pre-departure test result, so there is time to verify and review your documents before your flight. You will need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. Even if you are self-testing on arrival, you still must get a pre-departure test. You can choose one of the following: a supervised rapid antigen test (RAT) administered no more than 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand, or a supervised loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) test administered no more than 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand, or a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test administered no more than 48 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand. Make sure your pre-departure test documentation meets New Zealand’s standards. Find out more about pre-departure testing requirements --- Section Separator --- You need to have some evidence at the airport. Your documents can be paper or electronic. If they apply to you, you will need your: passport, and your visa ticket for your flight New Zealand Traveller Pass evidence of your vaccination status negative pre-departure test result. You will be asked if you have COVID-19 symptoms by airline staff. --- Section Separator --- Customs will check your: passport and visa (if you need one to enter New Zealand) New Zealand Traveller Pass completed arrival card, and any other entry requirements. Expect some delays as you transit through the airport. Please be kind to airport staff as they are working as quickly and carefully as they can. You will be given your welcome pack at Biosecurity once you have gone through Customs. Your welcome pack has: rapid antigen test (RAT) kits a guide to testing. Take your RAT test as instructed on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6. Children under 6 months do not need to self-test on arrival. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand If you have travelled to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay and test positive after being here for 7 days or longer, you will need to: isolate for 7 days — you should have a plan for this source your own accommodation and pay for this (and meet your other costs) pay for your healthcare costs. If you are a visitor to New Zealand and have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Travelling to New Zealand from outside of Australia and the Pacific Islands
Home International travel Transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you are transiting New Zealand, you must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. This applies even if you are staying airside and you do not go through Customs. Complete the traveller declaration (external link) If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You can transit New Zealand to travel to Australia. To be eligible to transit New Zealand to Australia, you must meet all requirements for entry to Australia. Check if you: need a valid visa to enter Australia need proof of your vaccination status meet the entry requirements of the state or territory you are travelling to. It is your responsibility to ensure that you comply with Australian entry requirements. Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, resident or Australian citizen who normally lives in New Zealand, you must be vaccinated with approved vaccines. This applies even though you are staying airside and you do not go through Customs. Travellers aged 16 years or under do not need to be vaccinated. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you are transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you are travelling though and your final destination. You will not be able to transit New Zealand if you do not meet all requirements. --- Section Separator --- If you are transiting New Zealand, you must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. This applies even if you are staying airside and you do not go through Customs. Complete the traveller declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You can transit New Zealand to travel to Australia. To be eligible to transit New Zealand to Australia, you must meet all requirements for entry to Australia. Check if you: need a valid visa to enter Australia need proof of your vaccination status meet the entry requirements of the state or territory you are travelling to. It is your responsibility to ensure that you comply with Australian entry requirements. Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, resident or Australian citizen who normally lives in New Zealand, you must be vaccinated with approved vaccines. This applies even though you are staying airside and you do not go through Customs. Travellers aged 16 years or under do not need to be vaccinated. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you are transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you are travelling though and your final destination. You will not be able to transit New Zealand if you do not meet all requirements. --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand How to enter New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel from New Zealand Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World
Home International travel Travel from New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Your destination, transit location and transport operators may have their own testing and vaccination requirements. Your may not be allowed to travel if you: have COVID-19 symptoms do not meet any vaccination requirements do not meet the health requirements of your destination. New Zealand citizens, residents and Australian citizens who live in New Zealand do not need to be vaccinated to enter New Zealand, but a irlines and transport operators may have their own vaccination policies. Check the official website of the country you wish to enter for information about any COVID-19 restrictions. Rules and restrictions can change quickly, so make sure you regularly check local health advice for the country you are travelling to. There are some simple things you can do to keep you and your whānau safe while you are overseas. Wear a face mask if you are indoors in crowded places. Wash and sanitise your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Try to meet outdoors where there is better ventilation. Make sure you have a plan if you or someone you are travelling with gets COVID-19 while overseas. If you test positive for COVID-19, you may have to pay for quarantine or self-isolate for a period of time. Be prepared for the possibility you may be in your destination longer than planned. If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) Check what you need to do before you enter New Zealand. Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands How to enter New Zealand if you are travelling from Asia, North America, South America, Europe or Africa --- Section Separator --- Your destination, transit location and transport operators may have their own testing and vaccination requirements. Your may not be allowed to travel if you: have COVID-19 symptoms do not meet any vaccination requirements do not meet the health requirements of your destination. New Zealand citizens, residents and Australian citizens who live in New Zealand do not need to be vaccinated to enter New Zealand, but a irlines and transport operators may have their own vaccination policies. --- Section Separator --- Check the official website of the country you wish to enter for information about any COVID-19 restrictions. Rules and restrictions can change quickly, so make sure you regularly check local health advice for the country you are travelling to. There are some simple things you can do to keep you and your whānau safe while you are overseas. Wear a face mask if you are indoors in crowded places. Wash and sanitise your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Try to meet outdoors where there is better ventilation. Make sure you have a plan if you or someone you are travelling with gets COVID-19 while overseas. If you test positive for COVID-19, you may have to pay for quarantine or self-isolate for a period of time. Be prepared for the possibility you may be in your destination longer than planned. If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link) --- Section Separator --- Check what you need to do before you enter New Zealand. Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands How to enter New Zealand if you are travelling from Asia, North America, South America, Europe or Africa --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand How to enter New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel from New Zealand Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand New Zealand’s borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. What you need to know Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Transiting New Zealand If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Over 2022, New Zealand's borders are reopening to allow more travellers to enter New Zealand. Use our step-by-step guide to help you get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand, and find out what to expect at the airport and after you arrive in New Zealand. Most travellers must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- All travellers must complete the traveller declaration before travelling to New Zealand. Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 test result to enter New Zealand. Find out about our pre-departure requirements. Eligible travellers must do 2 rapid antigen tests after arriving in New Zealand. Find out about testing when you arrive. --- Section Separator --- Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand. Travellers from some Pacific Islands do not need a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand or self-test on arrival. Information on how to enter New Zealand if you are travelling from Asia, Africa, Europe, North America or South America. --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link)
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. --- Section Separator --- Even if you are self-testing on arrival in New Zealand you still must get a pre-departure test. There are very few exceptions to this. New Zealand citizens are also required to get a pre-departure test. Exemptions for pre-departure testing (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most travellers entering New Zealand must provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 result from one of these tests: supervised rapid antigen test (RAT) administered no more than 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand, or a supervised loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) test administered no more than 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand. a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test administered no more than 48 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand, or You still need a test even if you have been vaccinated for COVID-19, or you are self-testing on arrival. You are responsible for checking your chosen testing provider can provide you with acceptable pre-departure documentation to the specified standard required by the New Zealand Government. Tests from free community testing stations may not be acceptable for travel clearance, so check before your test. If you cannot take a test due to medical reasons, you must provide a medical certificate. You will need to get this 72 hours before your flight. You will need to present this as part of your check-in documentation. If you have recently recovered from COVID-19, you still need to provide a current valid pre-departure test. Your test may show a positive result, so you will need to see a medical practitioner who will examine you for current symptoms of COVID-19. If they are confident you do not currently have a COVID-19 infection, you will need them to provide: a medical certificate with the date of your previous positive test, within 48 hours of your first international flight and documentation stating that they consider you as no longer being infectious with COVID-19. If you have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 3 months, we recommend you book your medical examination in advance of receiving your test results.
A step-by-step guide on what you need to do to travel to New Zealand and meet COVID-19 requirements.
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You will be given a pack of rapid antigen tests (RATs), with instructions on how to use them, at the airport. You must take 2 tests. Take a test on: Day 0/1, when you arrive in New Zealand, and Day 5/6. Children under 6 months do not need to self-test on arrival. You can find more detailed instructions for taking a RAT test on the Ministry of Health website. Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) You must report both RAT results, whether you test negative or positive. Your Welcome Pack will have instructions on how you can report your result. You will receive a reminder email from the New Zealand Ministry of Health. Follow the instructions in the email and report your results using the link in the email. You can also call the COVID-19 Test Results Line with your result. The call centre is open from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Call: 0800 432 010 If you return a positive RAT result you will need to: report it, including that you have recently arrived in New Zealand isolate for 7 days, the same period as a community case in New Zealand, and get a PCR test. Tell the health professional who does the test that you have recently arrived in New Zealand. The PCR test sample provides valuable information about potential new variants coming into New Zealand. PCR tests for overseas travellers are free. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) If you return a negative RAT, you must still report your result. You do not need to self-isolate. If a result is failed or indeterminate, you must get a PCR test. Tell the health professional who does the test that you have recently arrived in New Zealand. The PCR test sample provides valuable information about potential new variants coming into New Zealand. PCR tests for overseas travellers are free. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) If you develop COVID-19 symptoms after arriving in New Zealand but test negative, you should isolate and take another RAT 48 hours later. If your symptoms get worse you can call Healthline for free on: 0800 358 5453 — if you are calling from a New Zealand phone number +64 9 358 5453 — if you are using an International SIM If you have travelled to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay and test positive after being here for 7 days or longer, you will need to: isolate for 7 days — you should have a plan for this source your own accommodation and pay for this (and meet your other costs) pay for your healthcare costs. If you are a visitor to New Zealand and have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You will be given a pack of rapid antigen tests (RATs), with instructions on how to use them, at the airport. You must take 2 tests. Take a test on: Day 0/1, when you arrive in New Zealand, and Day 5/6. Children under 6 months do not need to self-test on arrival. You can find more detailed instructions for taking a RAT test on the Ministry of Health website. Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You must report both RAT results, whether you test negative or positive. Your Welcome Pack will have instructions on how you can report your result. You will receive a reminder email from the New Zealand Ministry of Health. Follow the instructions in the email and report your results using the link in the email. You can also call the COVID-19 Test Results Line with your result. The call centre is open from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Call: 0800 432 010 --- Section Separator --- If you return a positive RAT result you will need to: report it, including that you have recently arrived in New Zealand isolate for 7 days, the same period as a community case in New Zealand, and get a PCR test. Tell the health professional who does the test that you have recently arrived in New Zealand. The PCR test sample provides valuable information about potential new variants coming into New Zealand. PCR tests for overseas travellers are free. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you return a negative RAT, you must still report your result. You do not need to self-isolate. --- Section Separator --- If a result is failed or indeterminate, you must get a PCR test. Tell the health professional who does the test that you have recently arrived in New Zealand. The PCR test sample provides valuable information about potential new variants coming into New Zealand. PCR tests for overseas travellers are free. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you develop COVID-19 symptoms after arriving in New Zealand but test negative, you should isolate and take another RAT 48 hours later. If your symptoms get worse you can call Healthline for free on: 0800 358 5453 — if you are calling from a New Zealand phone number +64 9 358 5453 — if you are using an International SIM --- Section Separator --- If you have travelled to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay and test positive after being here for 7 days or longer, you will need to: isolate for 7 days — you should have a plan for this source your own accommodation and pay for this (and meet your other costs) pay for your healthcare costs. If you are a visitor to New Zealand and have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Preparing to travel to New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand
What to do if you have travelled to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay and test positive after being in New Zealand for 7 days or longer. --- Section Separator --- Report your positive rapid antigen test (RAT) by calling 0800 222 478 and get instructions on what to do. The Ministry of Health will send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers confirming your positive result. This text will provide information about self-isolation and a 6-digit access code for an online contact tracing form. You should tell your accommodation provider, the people you are staying with, people you have spent time with, such as tour operators, and any other close contacts, that you have COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation reduces the risk of spreading the virus to others. You must isolate for at least 7 days while you recover. Your 7 days start from Day 0 — the day your symptoms started or the day you got tested. If you want extra RATs, these can be purchased from pharmacies, supermarkets, online or picked up from a collection point. Where to get a test You are required to isolate where you are or find alternative accommodation. If you do not comply, you can be fined. Check with your current accommodation provider to extend your current booking or be prepared to look for alternative accommodation. You are expected to meet any additional costs associated with extending your stay or booking alternative accommodation. Check your travel insurance policy to see if you are covered. If cannot stay in your current accommodation, you must find alternative accommodation. It must be: close to where you are without shared guest facilities. Isolation accommodation can be self-contained motels, hotels, or campervans. Ask your current accommodation provider for help finding somewhere suitable. You cannot: take a commercial flight to your accommodation do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. Private transport can be used to relocate to your alternative isolation accommodation. It can be your own vehicle, or you can a hire vehicle if it is contactless payment and collection. Remember to contact your airline or tourism operator to reschedule any travel plans or activities. Please note, there is no legal obligation on the provider to provide a refund or reschedule. What you need to know when you are self-isolating The people who are staying with you are your Household Contacts. They will also need to self-isolate. Advice for your Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- COVID-19, especially the Omicron variant, is highly infectious. You are protecting your health and theirs by telling them as soon as possible. You should tell the people you are staying with, your accommodation provider, people you have spent time with, such as tour operators, and any other close contacts, that you have COVID-19. They may need to isolate as well. Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) Complete the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing form using the 6-digit access code you received in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. For most people, it will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. Complete the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19, especially if they are vaccinated and boosted, are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to self-manage. If you need any advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Tell them you have COVID-19. Translation services are available. If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you call. This can include if you or someone you care for has: severe shortness of breath or difficulty breathing severe chest pain or discomfort difficulty waking up or is very drowsy. If you need extra medication while self-isolating, contact a local doctor or pharmacy to arrange for a prescription to be filled locally or medication to be delivered. Costs may apply for medical assistance — travellers should hold comprehensive health/COVID-19 insurance. If you are an Australian Citizen or Permanent Resident or are a citizen of the United Kingdom, there is a reciprocal health agreement that means you pay what New Zealanders pay for healthcare. Consider contacting your embassy, consulate or High Commission if you go into hospital or require consular assistance. --- Section Separator --- Avoid contact with the people you are staying with — for example, sleep by yourself if you can and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, you should stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face mask that covers your nose and mouth when near others. Do your own laundry. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes items frequently touched like door handles, light switches and phones. Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. You can get deliveries, such as food and medicine, by ordering supplies online. You can work from your accommodation if you are able to do so. Do not leave your accommodation for any reason (unless it is a permitted reason such as seeking urgent medical care or exercising). Do not go out to get food or medicine. Do not share items with others in your household — for example, dishes, toothbrushes, and towels. Do not go to public places. Do not use public transport or taxis and rideshare vehicles. Do not have visitors, except people providing essential care to you or someone in the household. You can leave your accommodation if you wear a face mask at all times to: report for, and undergo, any medical examination and testing required access an essential health service for treatment that cannot wait until after your self-isolation has finished move to another place of self-isolation in order to preserve your own or another person’s life, health, or safety exercise outdoors in the neighbourhood you are staying in (do not use any shared exercise facility, such as a swimming pool) visit a dying relative who is not expected to live beyond your period of self-isolation visit the body of a relative before a funeral or tangihanga, if you will not be able to visit the body after your period of self-isolation. --- Section Separator --- If you are still sick, stay in your accommodation until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. You do not need to wait for an official message or release to leave isolation. You do not need to be tested. If you were, the result would likely show as positive but that does not mean you are infectious. Your Household Contacts can complete their isolation at the same time as you, as long as their Day 7 test was negative and they have no new or worsening symptoms. If their tests are positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and left isolation, there are a few things you should do and be mindful of in your recovery. After you have had COVID-19 Check if you need to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test, or a medical certificate confirming you have recovered before you travel. If you have recently recovered from COVID-19, your pre-departure test may show a positive result.
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- New Zealand residence class visa holders and Australian citizens who normally live in New Zealand who are not vaccinated against COVID-19 can now enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. Residence class visas are visas that may allow you to live permanently in New Zealand. If you are unsure if you hold a New Zealand residence class visa, you can contact Immigration New Zealand on 0800 558 855 to check. Residence class visas | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You still need to meet all other requirements to enter New Zealand, including providing proof of a negative pre-departure test. Read our step-by-step guide on what you need to do to travel to New Zealand Most travellers must meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before travelling to New Zealand by air. You will be required to provide proof of your vaccinations. If you do not meet the vaccination requirements , you wi l l not be able to enter New Zealand. You need to provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand if you are: not a New Zealand citizen or resident not an Australian citizen living in New Zealand not a New Zealand citizen or resident and you are transiting New Zealand foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand. You may be able to get an exemption if you are travelling to New Zealand from a country with no, or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you might qualify for an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health: Apply for an exemption | health.govt.nz (external link) You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen have a New Zealand residence class visa are an Australian citizen living in New Zealand are a child aged 16 years and under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a health practitioner are a refugee arriving in New Zealand for the first time are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated are arriving from Antarctica have been granted a visa under the 2022 Special Ukraine Visa Policy; or if you are or were ordinarily resident in Ukraine at any point on or after 1 January 2022. Any vaccine that has been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority is approved for entry into New Zealand. There are 35 vaccines that are approved. To be eligible to enter New Zealand, you must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. You need a digital vaccine certificate or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: your name the name of the vaccine or vaccines you received the name of the agency that administered them the name of the place where you received them the date of each dose or the date when a primary vaccination course was completed. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand residence class visa holders and Australian citizens who normally live in New Zealand who are not vaccinated against COVID-19 can now enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. Residence class visas are visas that may allow you to live permanently in New Zealand. If you are unsure if you hold a New Zealand residence class visa, you can contact Immigration New Zealand on 0800 558 855 to check. Residence class visas | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You still need to meet all other requirements to enter New Zealand, including providing proof of a negative pre-departure test. Read our step-by-step guide on what you need to do to travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before travelling to New Zealand by air. You will be required to provide proof of your vaccinations. If you do not meet the vaccination requirements , you wi l l not be able to enter New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- You need to provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand if you are: not a New Zealand citizen or resident not an Australian citizen living in New Zealand not a New Zealand citizen or resident and you are transiting New Zealand foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand. You may be able to get an exemption if you are travelling to New Zealand from a country with no, or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you might qualify for an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health: Apply for an exemption | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen have a New Zealand residence class visa are an Australian citizen living in New Zealand are a child aged 16 years and under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a health practitioner are a refugee arriving in New Zealand for the first time are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated are arriving from Antarctica have been granted a visa under the 2022 Special Ukraine Visa Policy; or if you are or were ordinarily resident in Ukraine at any point on or after 1 January 2022. --- Section Separator --- Any vaccine that has been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority is approved for entry into New Zealand. There are 35 vaccines that are approved. To be eligible to enter New Zealand, you must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. --- Section Separator --- You need a digital vaccine certificate or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: your name the name of the vaccine or vaccines you received the name of the agency that administered them the name of the place where you received them the date of each dose or the date when a primary vaccination course was completed. --- Section Separator --- Preparing to travel to New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s border is re opening to all tourists and visa holders f rom 11:59pm 31 July 2022. Vaccinated travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa category can apply to enter New Zealand from 4 Jul y 2022 . All other visa categories — including those on visitor and student visas can apply to enter New Zealand from anywhere in the world from 31 July 2022 . Cruise ships can enter New Zealand from 31 July 2022 , with the opening of the maritime border . Travellers will still need to meet all health requirements to enter New Zealand, including vaccination requirements and providing proof of a negative pre-departure test. Pre-departure testing requirements currently apply until 31 July 2022. The Government has indicated that pre-departure testing requirements may be removed before this date. Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) The following people can enter New Zealand now from anywhere in the world and self-test on arrival. Vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand citizens Vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand residents Vaccinated Australian citizens and permanent residents Unvaccinated Australian citizens who live in New Zealand Current temporary work and student visa holders, with a valid visa who can still meet their visa requirements. This includes both visa holders currently offshore, and those in New Zealand who choose to travel overseas and wish to return Up to 5,000 international students, for semester 2 Vaccinated travellers with a border exception Vaccinated travellers on a working holiday scheme Vaccinated travellers from countries who do not need a visa (visa waiver visitors) Vaccinated travellers from other countries who already hold a valid visitor visa Other vaccinated eligible travellers under current border settings Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand under current border settings | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Visa waiver countries and territories | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Apply for an NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) The following vaccinated people can apply to enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival: Travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa categories Travellers applying for a Work Visa in New Zealand Accredited Employer Work Visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) From 11:59pm Sunday 31 July, all visa categories including visitor and student visas will reopen for applications for travellers from anywhere in the world. You must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand, and have evidence of a negative COVID-19 test before your first international flight. Preparing to travel to New Zealand Most travellers must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. If you do not meet the vaccination requirements, you are not able to enter New Zealand — unless you are exempt or do not need to have proof of vaccination. You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen have a New Zealand residence class visa are an Australian citizen living in New Zealand are aged 16 years or under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a health practitioner are a refugee arriving in New Zealand for the first time are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated are arriving from Antarctica have been granted a visa under the 2022 Special Ukraine Visa Policy; or if you are or were ordinarily resident in Ukraine at any point on or after 1 January 2022 Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand New Zealand residence class visas | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Some travellers may be able to get an exemption if they are travelling to New Zealand from a country with no, or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you might qualify for an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health. Apply for an exemption | health.govt.nz (external link) To enter New Zealand, you must meet some health requirements. Get a pre-departure test After you enter New Zealand you must do 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6 and declare your results. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. All positive RATs must be registered and followed up with a PCR test. Testing requirements after arriving Travellers from some Pacific island countries are not required to get a pre-departure test or test on arrival. Travel with the Pacific Islands --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s border is re opening to all tourists and visa holders f rom 11:59pm 31 July 2022. Vaccinated travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa category can apply to enter New Zealand from 4 Jul y 2022 . All other visa categories — including those on visitor and student visas can apply to enter New Zealand from anywhere in the world from 31 July 2022 . Cruise ships can enter New Zealand from 31 July 2022 , with the opening of the maritime border . Travellers will still need to meet all health requirements to enter New Zealand, including vaccination requirements and providing proof of a negative pre-departure test. Pre-departure testing requirements currently apply until 31 July 2022. The Government has indicated that pre-departure testing requirements may be removed before this date. Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The following people can enter New Zealand now from anywhere in the world and self-test on arrival. Vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand citizens Vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand residents Vaccinated Australian citizens and permanent residents Unvaccinated Australian citizens who live in New Zealand Current temporary work and student visa holders, with a valid visa who can still meet their visa requirements. This includes both visa holders currently offshore, and those in New Zealand who choose to travel overseas and wish to return Up to 5,000 international students, for semester 2 Vaccinated travellers with a border exception Vaccinated travellers on a working holiday scheme Vaccinated travellers from countries who do not need a visa (visa waiver visitors) Vaccinated travellers from other countries who already hold a valid visitor visa Other vaccinated eligible travellers under current border settings Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand under current border settings | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Visa waiver countries and territories | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Apply for an NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The following vaccinated people can apply to enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival: Travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa categories Travellers applying for a Work Visa in New Zealand Accredited Employer Work Visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) From 11:59pm Sunday 31 July, all visa categories including visitor and student visas will reopen for applications for travellers from anywhere in the world. You must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand, and have evidence of a negative COVID-19 test before your first international flight. Preparing to travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. If you do not meet the vaccination requirements, you are not able to enter New Zealand — unless you are exempt or do not need to have proof of vaccination. You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen have a New Zealand residence class visa are an Australian citizen living in New Zealand are aged 16 years or under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a health practitioner are a refugee arriving in New Zealand for the first time are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated are arriving from Antarctica have been granted a visa under the 2022 Special Ukraine Visa Policy; or if you are or were ordinarily resident in Ukraine at any point on or after 1 January 2022 Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand New Zealand residence class visas | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Some travellers may be able to get an exemption if they are travelling to New Zealand from a country with no, or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you might qualify for an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health. Apply for an exemption | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- To enter New Zealand, you must meet some health requirements. Get a pre-departure test After you enter New Zealand you must do 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6 and declare your results. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. All positive RATs must be registered and followed up with a PCR test. Testing requirements after arriving Travellers from some Pacific island countries are not required to get a pre-departure test or test on arrival. Travel with the Pacific Islands --- Section Separator --- Preparing to travel to New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home Isolation and care After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- While you can get COVID-19 again at any time, the chance of reinfection in the 3 months after recovery is low. After you have recovered, you do not need to isolate as a Household Contact for 3 months if someone else in your household tests positive during this time. If you take a test after recently recovering from COVID-19, it will likely show as positive — but this does not mean you are infectious. Because of this, you should avoid taking further tests for 28 days. Count your 28 days from when your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. After 28 days, if you get new symptoms, take a RAT. If it is positive, you will be considered a new case and will need to isolate again. If you take a PCR test in the 3 months following recovery, you are likely to get a positive result even if you do not have a new infection. PCR tests are very sensitive and you will still have the virus in your system. If you need a PCR test for any reason in this period, talk to your doctor about getting a medical exemption. If you get COVID-19 again, your household contacts will need to isolate again, unless they had been a case within the previous 90 days, or they have isolated as a household contact within the previous 10 days. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely after 2 to 6 weeks, and make a full recovery within 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest tightness chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Post COVID-19 condition | who.int (external link) Long COVID | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated or had your booster, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. You should wait 3 months after recovery before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- While you can get COVID-19 again at any time, the chance of reinfection in the 3 months after recovery is low. After you have recovered, you do not need to isolate as a Household Contact for 3 months if someone else in your household tests positive during this time. If you take a test after recently recovering from COVID-19, it will likely show as positive — but this does not mean you are infectious. Because of this, you should avoid taking further tests for 28 days. Count your 28 days from when your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. After 28 days, if you get new symptoms, take a RAT. If it is positive, you will be considered a new case and will need to isolate again. If you take a PCR test in the 3 months following recovery, you are likely to get a positive result even if you do not have a new infection. PCR tests are very sensitive and you will still have the virus in your system. If you need a PCR test for any reason in this period, talk to your doctor about getting a medical exemption. If you get COVID-19 again, your household contacts will need to isolate again, unless they had been a case within the previous 90 days, or they have isolated as a household contact within the previous 10 days. --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely after 2 to 6 weeks, and make a full recovery within 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest tightness chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Post COVID-19 condition | who.int (external link) Long COVID | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated or had your booster, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. You should wait 3 months after recovery before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 How to self-isolate After you have had COVID-19 Help when you are self-isolating How to self-manage COVID-19 Financial support
Home Isolation and care Financial support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. --- Section Separator --- Answer these questions to find out what financial support you could get. There are different support options if you are an employer, are self-employed or a sole trader, or if you are an employee. --- Section Separator --- If you or someone in your household are waiting for a COVID-19 PCR test result and need to stay home, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment. If you cannot work from home, your employer can apply to help pay you. You can also apply if you are self-employed. You employer can get a one-off payment of $359. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. COVID-19 Short-term Absence Payment | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you cannot work from home while you are self-isolating, you may be eligible for the COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme. Your employer needs to apply for you. Y ou can also apply if you are self-employed. You may also be eligible for the scheme if you or someone you care for is at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. Your employer can get $600 per week if you work full time, and $359 per week if you work part time to pass on to you. Talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria. COVID-19 Leave Support Scheme | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) Extra help while you are self-isolating | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job or you cannot work at the moment, you may be able to get help from Work and Income. Use the online tool to find out what type of help you may qualify for. Support if you are not working | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you have lost your job because you decide not to get the COVID-19 vaccination, Work and Income may be able to help. You can: apply for benefits or other financial support ask them to help you find another job. You can get financial support from Work and Income regardless of your vaccination status. Lost job because of vaccination requirement | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have lost your job, cannot work or are working fewer hours, you may be able to get a benefit or some other financial help from Work and Income. Work and Income can help with urgent costs like: food accommodation costs, for example rent, board, or the cost of owning a home power, gas, heating or water bills medical and dental costs. You do not need to be on a benefit to get financial support. Help for you and your whānau during COVID-19 | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) Call Work and Income on 0800 559 009 or use their online calculator to check what you might be eligible for. Check what you might get | msd.govt.nz (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your employment has been affected and you are experiencing financial hardship, or you need help getting home, your embassy or consulate may be able to help. People on a temporary visa are not eligible for help from Work and Income. Contact details of your country's embassy, consulate or high commission (external link) (external link) If you are an international student and are experiencing financial hardship, we recommend you speak to your education provider or student association. They may be able to offer you free budgeting advice, or tell you about funds that are available.
What to do if you have tested positive for COVID-19 or are a probable case. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health will send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers confirming your positive test result. The text will provide information about self-isolation, support options and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you had a PCR test, you will get a text message with your result. If you had a rapid antigen test (RAT), you will get a text message after you have reported your results through My Covid Record or by phone. This can take up to 24 hours. How to report your RAT results --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation reduces the risks of spreading the virus to others. You will need to isolate for at least 7 days while you recover. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. You do not need a test to leave isolation. If you do, the result would likely show as positive but that does not mean you are infectious. If you are still sick, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. What you need to know when you are self-isolating Help when you are self-isolating Your Household Contacts will also need to self-isolate, unless they have had COVID-19 in the last 3 months. Advice for your Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- COVID-19, especially the Omicron variant, is highly infectious. You are protecting your health and theirs by telling them as soon as possible. You need to tell the people you live with, your workplace or school and other close contacts Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) Complete the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing form using the 6-digit access code you received in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. For most people, it will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and have not completed the form within 12 hours, you will get a phone call. Complete the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19, especially if they are fully vaccinated and boosted, are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to self-manage. If you need any advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you call. This can include if you or someone you care for has: severe shortness of breath or difficulty breathing severe chest pain or discomfort difficulty waking up or is very drowsy. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. --- Section Separator --- If you are still sick, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. You do not need to wait for an official message to leave isolation. You may receive a text message confirming your isolation period has ended. Your Household Contacts can complete their isolation at the same time as you, as long as their Day 7 test was negative and they have no new or worsening symptoms. If their tests are positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. You do not need a negative RAT result to return to work or school . If you did take a RAT, the result would likely show as positive but that does not mean you are infectious. Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. If you develop new cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms within 90 days of your original infection, take a RAT instead of a PCR. If someone you live with tests positive, they will need to isolate again along with any Household Contacts who have not had COVID-19 in the last 3 months. There are a few other things you should do: After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can co-ordinate extra support for you if you need it. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available.
Home Isolation and care If you have COVID-19 If you get COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- This page is for people who live in New Zealand and are travelling domestically. What to do if you test positive while visiting New Zealand from another country You could get COVID-19 or find out you are a Household Contact while you are away from home on holiday or for work. Have a plan for what you need to do. Plan how to get home safely to isolate — you can only return home if you or someone you are travelling with can drive there. Talk through the plan with your travelling companions. If you cannot drive home, it is likely you will need to stay where you are for your isolation period. If you test positive for COVID-19 If you get cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while away from home, get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home. Order a rapid antigen test (RAT) online and pick up from your nearest collection point. Order online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Find a COVID-19 collection point | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) COVID-19 symptoms You should tell your accommodation provider if you have tested positive. They can make sure the property is safe for the next booking. More advice around temporary accommodation can be found on the Ministry of Health website: Guidance for isolating in temporary or holiday accommodation | health.govt.nz (external link) If you test positive or you are a Household Contact, you cannot: take a commercial flight home do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. If you are away for work, accommodation can be arranged by you or your employer. You do not need to seek permission to do this. If you have to self-isolate where you are, you will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. Care in the Community Getting help if you are self-isolating Check the COVID-19 Health Hub for advice. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Plan: who can look after your house if necessary who can care for your pets what things to take with you to help with boredom while isolating to have enough money to cover an extended time away from home, for example accommodation costs a list of medical information — include names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions, and medication or medical supplies each person with you needs. You will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines. How to self-isolate If you or your travelling companions can drive home in a private or work vehicle, then you can do so. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you need to plan: your route home how you would get fuel — you should only stop at a contactless petrol station supplies for the journey home to reduce the number of stops you make. You must not use public transport or do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. Remember to keep up healthy habits If you are borrowing or renting a car, tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle afterwards. Once you are home, follow the self-isolation guidance. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- This page is for people who live in New Zealand and are travelling domestically. What to do if you test positive while visiting New Zealand from another country --- Section Separator --- You could get COVID-19 or find out you are a Household Contact while you are away from home on holiday or for work. Have a plan for what you need to do. Plan how to get home safely to isolate — you can only return home if you or someone you are travelling with can drive there. Talk through the plan with your travelling companions. If you cannot drive home, it is likely you will need to stay where you are for your isolation period. If you test positive for COVID-19 If you get cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms while away from home, get tested immediately. Do not wait until you get home. Order a rapid antigen test (RAT) online and pick up from your nearest collection point. Order online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Find a COVID-19 collection point | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- You should tell your accommodation provider if you have tested positive. They can make sure the property is safe for the next booking. More advice around temporary accommodation can be found on the Ministry of Health website: Guidance for isolating in temporary or holiday accommodation | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you test positive or you are a Household Contact, you cannot: take a commercial flight home do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. If you are away for work, accommodation can be arranged by you or your employer. You do not need to seek permission to do this. If you have to self-isolate where you are, you will still have support available to isolate as part of the Care in the Community programme. Care in the Community Getting help if you are self-isolating Check the COVID-19 Health Hub for advice. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Plan: who can look after your house if necessary who can care for your pets what things to take with you to help with boredom while isolating to have enough money to cover an extended time away from home, for example accommodation costs a list of medical information — include names, ages, NHI numbers, any medical conditions, and medication or medical supplies each person with you needs. You will need to follow the self-isolation guidelines. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you or your travelling companions can drive home in a private or work vehicle, then you can do so. You will need to make as few stops as possible, so you need to plan: your route home how you would get fuel — you should only stop at a contactless petrol station supplies for the journey home to reduce the number of stops you make. You must not use public transport or do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay or interisland travel. Remember to keep up healthy habits If you are borrowing or renting a car, tell the car owner or rental service so they can clean the vehicle afterwards. Once you are home, follow the self-isolation guidance. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you get COVID-19 while travelling
Home Languages and resources Find COVID-19 information in your language, accessible formats and download posters and resources for your business or household. --- Section Separator --- Information and advice translated into different languages. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Download our posters and resources for your home and business. --- Section Separator --- Information and advice translated into different languages. Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. Download our posters and resources for your home and business.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs. --- Section Separator --- Our COVID-19 information is currently under review and will be updated as soon as possible. Alternate formats are in Easy Read, New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL), braille, audio and Large Print. We encourage you to help people who do not have access to the internet by printing off or sharing formats which may be useful to them. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description. --- Section Separator --- Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. Information about our response to COVID-19 in Braille. Information and advice about COVID-19 with audio description.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Braille --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Braille: New process for face mask exemptions [BRF, 2 KB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [BRF, 2 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] Life at Orange [BRF, 6 KB] Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. Changes to the traffic light system [BRF, 2 KB] Life at Red [BRF, 10 KB] Life at Orange [BRF, 6 KB] The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 5 KB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [BRF, 2 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [BRF, 2 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Getting your booster dose [BRF, 4 KB] My Covid Record [BRF, 3 KB] My Vaccine Pass [BRF, 4 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] COVID-19 testing [BRF, 3 KB] When you should get a test [BRF, 3 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] How contact tracing works [BRF, 4 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 3 KB] Isolating at home [BRF, 6 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] Travel within New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Braille: New process for face mask exemptions [BRF, 2 KB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [BRF, 2 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] Life at Orange [BRF, 6 KB] --- Section Separator --- Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. --- Section Separator --- Changes to the traffic light system [BRF, 2 KB] Life at Red [BRF, 10 KB] Life at Orange [BRF, 6 KB] --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 5 KB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [BRF, 2 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [BRF, 2 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Getting your booster dose [BRF, 4 KB] My Covid Record [BRF, 3 KB] My Vaccine Pass [BRF, 4 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 testing [BRF, 3 KB] When you should get a test [BRF, 3 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] How contact tracing works [BRF, 4 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [BRF, 6 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travel within New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. --- Section Separator --- This page has lots of links to Easy Read information. Scroll down the page and click the boxes below to find more information. --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Easy Read: What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 6.7 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.5 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] What is Long COVID [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID [PDF, 1.2 MB] What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [PDF, 1.2 MB] Life at Orange [DOCX, 12 MB] Life at Orange [PDF, 2.1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information about the traffic lights system. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Easy Read about travelling to and from New Zealand, and travelling around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information about the traffic lights system. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Easy Read about travelling to and from New Zealand, and travelling around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 1.9 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 1.9 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Isolation and care (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 2.7 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 10 MB] Wearing a face mask [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 6.7 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.5 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 10 MB] Wearing a face mask [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 6.7 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Testing (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- When should you get a COVID-19 test [DOCX, 6 MB] When should you get a COVID-19 test [PDF, 1.7 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [PDF, 1.2 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [DOCX, 17 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [PDF, 2.6 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [DOCX, 14 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [PDF, 2.3 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [DOCX, 5.4 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [PDF, 1.5 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [PDF, 2.8 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- When should you get a COVID-19 test [DOCX, 6 MB] When should you get a COVID-19 test [PDF, 1.7 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.2 MB] What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [DOCX, 17 MB] How to order a rapid antigen test kit or RAT kit [PDF, 2.6 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [DOCX, 14 MB] How to do a rapid antigen test or a RAT [PDF, 2.3 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [DOCX, 5.4 MB] How to report a rapid antigen test or RAT result [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [DOCX, 10 MB] Getting tested for COVID-19 using a PCR test [PDF, 2.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description Translations
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [DOCX, 12 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [PDF, 2.1 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [DOCX, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [PDF, 1 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [DOCX, 9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [DOCX, 8.8 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [PDF, 1.6 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [DOCX, 6.5 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] Changes to the traffic light system rules [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Changes to the traffic light system rules [PDF, 1.5 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [DOCX, 12 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [PDF, 2.1 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [DOCX, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [PDF, 1 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [DOCX, 9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [DOCX, 8.8 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [PDF, 1.6 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [DOCX, 6.5 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Changes to the traffic light system rules [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Changes to the traffic light system rules [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.1 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Large print and Audio: New process for face mask exemptions [DOCX, 539 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [MP3, 753 KB] What to do if you cannot wear a mask [DOCX, 538 KB] What to do if you cannot wear a mask [MP3, 721 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [DOCX, 539 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] Life at Orange [DOCX, 543 KB] Life at Orange [MP3, 3.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to and from New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to and from New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 544 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [DOCX, 117 KB] Getting your booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.7 MB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [MP3, 3.2 MB] Getting your booster dose [MP3, 1.7 MB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] My Covid Record [DOCX, 539 KB] My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 541 KB] My Covid Record [MP3, 1.6 MB] My Vaccine Pass [MP3, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 544 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [DOCX, 117 KB] Getting your booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.7 MB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [MP3, 3.2 MB] Getting your booster dose [MP3, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- My Covid Record [DOCX, 539 KB] My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 541 KB] My Covid Record [MP3, 1.6 MB] My Vaccine Pass [MP3, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 542 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 3.3 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 542 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 3.3 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] --- Section Separator --- Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 536 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 538 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [DOCX, 539 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 2.3 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [MP3, 721 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [MP3, 753 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 536 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [DOCX, 47 KB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 538 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [DOCX, 539 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 2.3 MB] Personal protective equipment (PPE) [MP3, 2 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [MP3, 721 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [MP3, 753 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 testing [DOCX, 543 KB] When you should get a test [DOCX, 540 KB] How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 540 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 543 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [DOCX, 539 KB] COVID-19 testing [MP3, 1.4 MB] When you should get a test [MP3, 1.7 MB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.1 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 2.8 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 541 KB] How contact tracing works [DOCX, 542 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] How contact tracing works [MP3, 2.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.4 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 testing [DOCX, 543 KB] When you should get a test [DOCX, 540 KB] How to get a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 540 KB] How to use a rapid antigen test [DOCX, 539 KB] How to report your rapid antigen test results [DOCX, 540 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 543 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [DOCX, 539 KB] COVID-19 testing [MP3, 1.4 MB] When you should get a test [MP3, 1.7 MB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.1 MB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [MP3, 1.6 MB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [MP3, 1.3 MB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 2.8 MB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID 19 [MP3, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [DOCX, 541 KB] How contact tracing works [DOCX, 542 KB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [DOCX, 538 KB] How contact tracing works [MP3, 2.4 MB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [MP3, 1.4 MB] NZ COVID Tracer app with Bluetooth [MP3, 2.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). --- Section Separator --- Our website has everything you need to know about COVID-19. Get reliable information, updates and answers to your questions. Introduction to our website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language: What to do if you cannot wear a face mask (external link) Life at Orange How to get a Rapid Antigen Test Long COVID --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in NZSL, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information is NZSL about travelling to and from New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in NZSL about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people with My Vaccine Pass more freedoms. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in NZSL, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information is NZSL about travelling to and from New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in NZSL about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home Languages and resources Posters Download posters and resources for your household and business to help everyone keep safe from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- You can view and download all our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- What type of contact are you? [PNG, 907 KB] How to work out your days of self-isolation [PNG, 926 KB] Household Contacts — what you need to do [PNG, 903 KB] Testing positive at different times [PNG, 1 MB] Do you need a test to leave isolation? [PNG, 857 KB] Got any symptoms? [JPG, 489 KB] Test results [JPG, 527 KB] How to self-isolate [JPG, 605 KB] Need support? [JPG, 501 KB] What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [JPG, 539 KB] What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 167 KB] --- Section Separator --- Download a printable table of the traffic light settings. COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] --- Section Separator --- Businesses and workplaces are no longer required to display a QR code poster, but can choose to do so. Get your QR code poster (external link) Manage and reprint your QR code posters (external link) More information about NZ COVID Tracer QR codes | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- How to wear a face mask safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face mask [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Make a plan if you get COVID-19 [PDF, 176 KB] Kia ora — we're self-isolating. Please do not enter [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- There is no requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses can choose to check My Vaccine Pass if they would like to. If your business chooses to, you could display a poster to let people know: Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry [PDF, 86 KB] Find out more about My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti o ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei āhea whiwhi i tētahi, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti o ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei āhea whiwhi i tētahi, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine Te whiwhi i tō pota āpiti | Getting your booster dose --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 16 tau, e māraurau ana koe ki te pota āpiti o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau, ka taea e koe te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri i ō pota matua. Mēnā he 16, 17 hoki ō tau, ka taea e koe tō pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i ō pota matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea he whakature ngā pota āpiti, ā, kāore e hiahiatia ana e riro ai i a koe he Tohu Ārai Mate. Ki te whiwhi koe i tētahi pota āpiti, ka tāpiritia atu ki My Covid Record, ā, ka taea e koe te hanga i tētahi atu Tohu. Mēnā kua pāngia kētia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 me tatari mō te toru marama i muri i te rā o tō whakamātautau e tohu aha kei te pāngia koe, i mua i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te whiwhi i tētahi pota āpiti mā te: haere ki tētahi whare haumanu kano ārai mate kuhu noa whakarite i tētahi toronga ki tō tākuta, mēnā e tuku ana ia i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 tāpui mā Book My Vaccine, te waea rānei ki 0800 28 29 26 . Book My Vaccine (external link) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa mō ngā pota āpiti, ahakoa i whiwhi koe i tētahi kano ārai mate rerekē i āu pota i mua. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer E wātea ana te pota āpiti AstraZeneca ināianei i te toru marama i muri i te pota tuarua, engari me whai tūtohu rongoā. Ka taea e koe te whai tūtohu rongoā i tō tākuta mariu i mua i tō toronga, mai i tētahi whare haumanu kano ārai mate AstraZeneca rānei - engari kāore e taea e ngā whare haumanu katoa te tuku i tētahi tūtohu rongoā. He koreutu te toro atu ki te tākuta mō tētahi tūtohu rongoā pota āpiti AstraZeneca. Te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca Ahakoa he pai tonu te tiaki a ngā potanga e rua mai i tētahi mate kino o ngā momo KOWHEORI-19 Delta me te Omicron mō tētahi wā, ko te tikanga he kaha ake te tiaki a te pota āpiti i a koe. E whakaatu ana ngā whakaaturanga onāianei i tō kaha ārai mai i te whakapokenga i te hekenga haeretanga o te kano ārai mate matua i roto i te wā. Ka āwhina te whiwhi kano ārai mate ‘tāpiri’ i muri i tētahi potanga matua hei āwhina ki te whakakaha i tō ārai mate mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ko tā te pota āpiti he whakaheke i tō tūpono pānga ki te mate taumaha i te KOWHEORI-19, o te uru rānei ki te hōhipera. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te pota matua i tāwāhi, ka taea e koe te whiwhi i te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri mai i tō werohanga whakamutunga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau. Mēnā he 16, 17 hoki ō tau, ka taea e koe tō pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i ō pota whakamutunga kua whiwhi koe. E whakahautia ana he pota matua tuatoru mā te hunga awhikiri pahara. He rerekē tēnei i te pota āpiti. Ko te hunga e māraurau ana ki te pota matua tuatoru, ka āhei hoki ki te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri i te werohanga pota matua tuatoru mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau. Mēnā he pakeke ake i te 16, te 17 tau rānei ka taea tētahi pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i te pota matua tuatoru. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te pota matua tuatoru mēnā he awhikiri pahara tōu (external link) He ōrite ngā pānga kino o ngā pota āpiti ki ērā o ngā pota matua o te kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko te mamae, te whero o te kiri, te kōpuku, i te wāhi wero, te ānini, te paipairuaki me te ngenge, ruha rānei. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā pānga kino (external link) --- Section Separator --- Mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 16 tau, e māraurau ana koe ki te pota āpiti o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau, ka taea e koe te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri i ō pota matua. Mēnā he 16, 17 hoki ō tau, ka taea e koe tō pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i ō pota matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ehara i te mea he whakature ngā pota āpiti, ā, kāore e hiahiatia ana e riro ai i a koe he Tohu Ārai Mate. Ki te whiwhi koe i tētahi pota āpiti, ka tāpiritia atu ki My Covid Record, ā, ka taea e koe te hanga i tētahi atu Tohu. Mēnā kua pāngia kētia koe e te KOWHEORI-19 me tatari mō te toru marama i muri i te rā o tō whakamātautau e tohu aha kei te pāngia koe, i mua i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te whiwhi i tētahi pota āpiti mā te: haere ki tētahi whare haumanu kano ārai mate kuhu noa whakarite i tētahi toronga ki tō tākuta, mēnā e tuku ana ia i ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 tāpui mā Book My Vaccine, te waea rānei ki 0800 28 29 26 . Book My Vaccine (external link) Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record My Vaccine Pass (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa mō ngā pota āpiti, ahakoa i whiwhi koe i tētahi kano ārai mate rerekē i āu pota i mua. Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer E wātea ana te pota āpiti AstraZeneca ināianei i te toru marama i muri i te pota tuarua, engari me whai tūtohu rongoā. Ka taea e koe te whai tūtohu rongoā i tō tākuta mariu i mua i tō toronga, mai i tētahi whare haumanu kano ārai mate AstraZeneca rānei - engari kāore e taea e ngā whare haumanu katoa te tuku i tētahi tūtohu rongoā. He koreutu te toro atu ki te tākuta mō tētahi tūtohu rongoā pota āpiti AstraZeneca. Te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca Ahakoa he pai tonu te tiaki a ngā potanga e rua mai i tētahi mate kino o ngā momo KOWHEORI-19 Delta me te Omicron mō tētahi wā, ko te tikanga he kaha ake te tiaki a te pota āpiti i a koe. E whakaatu ana ngā whakaaturanga onāianei i tō kaha ārai mai i te whakapokenga i te hekenga haeretanga o te kano ārai mate matua i roto i te wā. Ka āwhina te whiwhi kano ārai mate ‘tāpiri’ i muri i tētahi potanga matua hei āwhina ki te whakakaha i tō ārai mate mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Ko tā te pota āpiti he whakaheke i tō tūpono pānga ki te mate taumaha i te KOWHEORI-19, o te uru rānei ki te hōhipera. Mēnā i werohia koe ki te pota matua i tāwāhi, ka taea e koe te whiwhi i te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri mai i tō werohanga whakamutunga mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau. Mēnā he 16, 17 hoki ō tau, ka taea e koe tō pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i ō pota whakamutunga kua whiwhi koe. E whakahautia ana he pota matua tuatoru mā te hunga awhikiri pahara. He rerekē tēnei i te pota āpiti. Ko te hunga e māraurau ana ki te pota matua tuatoru, ka āhei hoki ki te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri i te werohanga pota matua tuatoru mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau. Mēnā he pakeke ake i te 16, te 17 tau rānei ka taea tētahi pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i te pota matua tuatoru. Rapua he kōrero anō mō te pota matua tuatoru mēnā he awhikiri pahara tōu (external link) He ōrite ngā pānga kino o ngā pota āpiti ki ērā o ngā pota matua o te kano ārai mate. Ka uru ki ēnei ko te mamae, te whero o te kiri, te kōpuku, i te wāhi wero, te ānini, te paipairuaki me te ngenge, ruha rānei. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā pānga kino (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine Ko te kano ārai mate Pfizer | The Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa ka hangaia e Pfizer-BioNTech. E mōhiotia ana hoki e tōna ingoa whaitohu, a Comirnaty. He kano ārai mate pūtake mRNA (waikawa tuipūmua karere). kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto. Kāore e pāngia tō DNA, ō ira rānei. He kore utu, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa pakeke ake i te 5 tau. He momo kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano ārai mate ka whakamahia mā ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau te pakeke, otirā he iti iho te pota, he iti iho hoki te rahinga. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā kano ārai mate mā te hunga 5-11 tau te pakeke Pakeke ake i te 18 tau: kia rua ngā pota o te kano ārai mate, kia 3 wiki te wehenga. Me whiwhi hoki koe i tētahi pota āpiti mēnā kua 3 marama neke atu, i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate tuatahi. 16 me te 17 tau: kia rua ngā pota o te kano ārai mate, kia 3 wiki te wehenga. Me whiwhi hoki koe i tētahi pota āpiti mēnā kua 6 marama neke atu, i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate tuatahi. 12 me te 15 tau: kia rua ngā pota o te kano ārai mate, kia 3 wiki te wehenga. I tēnei wā kāore ngā pota āpiti i te wātea ki te hunga kei raro i te 16 tau te pakeke. 5 ki te 11 tau: e whakahaua ana kia 8 wiki te wā i waenganui i ngā pota. I tēnei wā kāore ngā pota āpiti i te wātea ki te hunga kei raro i te 16 tau te pakeke. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti Ka taea e koe te tāpui ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer mā Book My Vaccine (external link) , mā te waea rānei i te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . Ka werohia koe e tētahi kaituku kano ārai mate tautōhito ki te kano ārai mate i te wāhanga o runga o tō ringa. Ka taea te werohanga tuarua i muri i te toru wiki i te iti rawa o tō werohanga tuatahi. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te Pfizer mō te pota tuatahi, kāti me whiwhi anō koe i tērā mō te pota tuarua. Me noho koe mō te 15 meneti i muri i tō werohanga kano ārai mate kia pai ai tā mātou tirotiro mēnā kei te pai koe. Mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau, ka taea e koe te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri i ō pota matua. Mēnā he 16, 17 hoki ō tau, ka taea e koe tō pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i ō pota matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti Ka tukuna e te kano ārai mate Pfizer he huinga tohutohu hei whakaako i tō tinana me pēhea te whawhai i te huaketo KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka ako tō tinana ki te āhua o te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 me te whakamahi i ngā paturopi ki te whawhai atu. Ko tā te paturopi mahi he ārai atu i te huaketo kia kore e pokea ō pūtau, ā, ka āwhina ki te patu i a ia. Ina pā koe ki te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 hei te wā e tū mai nei, kei tō tinana ngā utauta tika ki te ārai i a ia anō, kia iti iho tō tūpono pāngia e te mate. Ko ngā kano ārai mate Kowheori-19 ngā kano kua nui te rangahautia o ngā kano ārai mate katoa. E mōhio ana mātou ki te pai o te mahi a te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā te mea i tutuki ngā hia marama o ngā whakamātautau ā-haumanu ki te 40,000 tāngata i mua i tana whakamanatanga. I whakatauritehia e ngā whakamātautau haumanu ngā hua o tētahi rōpū whiwhi kano ārai mate ki tētahi rōpū whiwhi kano whakataruna (mehanga tote). I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i kitea he 95% te parenga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka tirotiro ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Māna e tūtohu mēnā ka whakaaetia tētahi rongoā hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa, engari me whakatutuki rawa ēnei paerewa. Kua tukua e Medsafe te whakaaetanga tārewa ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer (me ngā here) kia whakamahia i Aotearoa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua whakaaetia ōkawatia, engari me tuku tonu a Pfizer i ngā raraunga haere tonu me te pūrongo hoki hei whakaatu i tana whakatutuki i ngā paerewa o te ao. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi aroturuki a Medsafe i te haumarutanga me te whaihuatanga o te kano ārai mate i te wā e whakamahia ana. Ka arotakehia ngā raraunga mai i ngā whakamātautau haumanu haere tonu puta noa i te ao, me ngā pūrongo mai i ngā mātanga hauora me te hunga kua whiwhi kano ārai mate. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i ngā rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te pota tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka whai pānga pea ētahi pānga kino i tō kaha ki te taraiwa mō tētahi wā poto, te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te pota tuarua. Tērā anō ētahi pānga kino tino mokorea, engari he tino taumaha. Ko te myocarditis te mumuratanga o te taha uaua manawa, ā, e mōhiotia ana hei pānga kino mokorea o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Ka uru ki ngā tohumate te: mamae uma ohorere hou hē o te manawa manawataki rerekē. Ka taea e koe te whāki i ngā pānga kino ki te CARM, arā, The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring. He pātengi raraunga a CARM o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Te whāki i tētahi tauhohenga kino (external link) He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro me te tono i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, me te kite i ngā whakamātautau KOWHEORI kua whakahaeretia e koe. Ko te wāhitau paetukutuku ko mycovidrecord.health.nz Mā tēnei pae tukutuku ka taea e koe: Te tono i tētahi kape o āu mauhanga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - kei roto ngā tau tira, ngā tau pota, te ingoa kano ārai mate me te kaiwhakaputa, me ngā kano ārai mate o tāwāhi kua tonoa e koe kia tāpiritia ki tō pūkete hauora. Mēnā ka hiahia koe i ēnei kōrero mō tētahi atu, waea ki 0800 222 478 Te tono i tētahi My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ka taea te tono i ngā mōhiohio mōu ake, mō tētahi atu rānei. Te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei manatoko i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. Ka taea te tono i ngā mōhiohio mōu ake, mō tētahi atu rānei. Te tiro i ō hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 Tukua ake ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere . Ka taea e koe te tāpiri i tētahi hua whakamātautau, mōu, mō tētahi atu rānei. Kua kore te Kāwanatanga e hiahia kia whiwhi koe i te My Vaccine Pass e uru ai koe ki ngā pakihi, ngā takahanga, ngā ratonga rānei. Ka taea tonu e te pakihi te kōwhiri kia whiwhi My Vaccine Pass te tangata i mua o te kuhunga mēnā he take hauora, haumaru hoki o te mau i tētahi. Engari ko ngā pakihi me ngā rōpū ka kōwhiri kia whiwhi koe i tētahi My Vaccine Pass hei tikanga whakauru, e kore e taea te aukati i te hunga kei raro i te 12 tau te kuhu atu ina kore he My Vaccine Pass. Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Te aromatawai me te whakamana i ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Ngā pānga kino me ngā tauhohenga o ngā kano ārai mate — Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca | Pokapū Tohutohu Awhikiri (external link) Ngā mōhiotanga rūkahu me ngā tāware --- Section Separator --- Ko te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 matua e whakamahia ana i Aotearoa ka hangaia e Pfizer-BioNTech. E mōhiotia ana hoki e tōna ingoa whaitohu, a Comirnaty. He kano ārai mate pūtake mRNA (waikawa tuipūmua karere). kāore he huaketo ora, mate, whakaweto rānei i roto. Kāore e pāngia tō DNA, ō ira rānei. He kore utu, ā, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa pakeke ake i te 5 tau. He momo kano ārai mate Pfizer te kano ārai mate ka whakamahia mā ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau te pakeke, otirā he iti iho te pota, he iti iho hoki te rahinga. Rapua he kōrero anō mō ngā kano ārai mate mā te hunga 5-11 tau te pakeke Pakeke ake i te 18 tau: kia rua ngā pota o te kano ārai mate, kia 3 wiki te wehenga. Me whiwhi hoki koe i tētahi pota āpiti mēnā kua 3 marama neke atu, i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate tuatahi. 16 me te 17 tau: kia rua ngā pota o te kano ārai mate, kia 3 wiki te wehenga. Me whiwhi hoki koe i tētahi pota āpiti mēnā kua 6 marama neke atu, i tō whiwhinga kano ārai mate tuatahi. 12 me te 15 tau: kia rua ngā pota o te kano ārai mate, kia 3 wiki te wehenga. I tēnei wā kāore ngā pota āpiti i te wātea ki te hunga kei raro i te 16 tau te pakeke. 5 ki te 11 tau: e whakahaua ana kia 8 wiki te wā i waenganui i ngā pota. I tēnei wā kāore ngā pota āpiti i te wātea ki te hunga kei raro i te 16 tau te pakeke. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti Ka taea e koe te tāpui ki te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer mā Book My Vaccine (external link) , mā te waea rānei i te COVID Vaccination Healthline i 0800 28 29 26 . Ka werohia koe e tētahi kaituku kano ārai mate tautōhito ki te kano ārai mate i te wāhanga o runga o tō ringa. Ka taea te werohanga tuarua i muri i te toru wiki i te iti rawa o tō werohanga tuatahi. Mēnā ka whiwhi koe i te Pfizer mō te pota tuatahi, kāti me whiwhi anō koe i tērā mō te pota tuarua. Me noho koe mō te 15 meneti i muri i tō werohanga kano ārai mate kia pai ai tā mātou tirotiro mēnā kei te pai koe. Mēnā he pakeke ake koe i te 18 tau, ka taea e koe te pota āpiti i te toru marama i muri i ō pota matua. Mēnā he 16, 17 hoki ō tau, ka taea e koe tō pota āpiti i te ono marama i muri i ō pota matua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti Ka tukuna e te kano ārai mate Pfizer he huinga tohutohu hei whakaako i tō tinana me pēhea te whawhai i te huaketo KOWHEORI-19. Kātahi ka ako tō tinana ki te āhua o te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 me te whakamahi i ngā paturopi ki te whawhai atu. Ko tā te paturopi mahi he ārai atu i te huaketo kia kore e pokea ō pūtau, ā, ka āwhina ki te patu i a ia. Ina pā koe ki te huaketo KOWHEORI-19 hei te wā e tū mai nei, kei tō tinana ngā utauta tika ki te ārai i a ia anō, kia iti iho tō tūpono pāngia e te mate. Ko ngā kano ārai mate Kowheori-19 ngā kano kua nui te rangahautia o ngā kano ārai mate katoa. E mōhio ana mātou ki te pai o te mahi a te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā te mea i tutuki ngā hia marama o ngā whakamātautau ā-haumanu ki te 40,000 tāngata i mua i tana whakamanatanga. I whakatauritehia e ngā whakamātautau haumanu ngā hua o tētahi rōpū whiwhi kano ārai mate ki tētahi rōpū whiwhi kano whakataruna (mehanga tote). I ngā whakamātautau haumanu, i kitea he 95% te parenga a te kano ārai mate Pfizer i ngā tohumate o te KOWHEORI-19. Ko Medsafe te mana haumaru rongoā o Aotearoa. Ka tirotiro ia i ngā tono mō ngā rongoā hou katoa, tae atu ki ngā kano ārai mate, kia whakarite kia eke ki ngā paerewa ā-ao me ngā herenga o konei. Māna e tūtohu mēnā ka whakaaetia tētahi rongoā hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa, engari me whakatutuki rawa ēnei paerewa. Kua tukua e Medsafe te whakaaetanga tārewa ki te kano ārai mate Pfizer (me ngā here) kia whakamahia i Aotearoa. Ko te tikanga o tēnei, kua whakaaetia ōkawatia, engari me tuku tonu a Pfizer i ngā raraunga haere tonu me te pūrongo hoki hei whakaatu i tana whakatutuki i ngā paerewa o te ao. Ka haere tonu ngā mahi aroturuki a Medsafe i te haumarutanga me te whaihuatanga o te kano ārai mate i te wā e whakamahia ana. Ka arotakehia ngā raraunga mai i ngā whakamātautau haumanu haere tonu puta noa i te ao, me ngā pūrongo mai i ngā mātanga hauora me te hunga kua whiwhi kano ārai mate. Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka rongo pea koe i ētahi pānga kino ngāwari i ngā rā i muri i te whiwhinga i te kano. He pērā tonu te āhua ki te nuinga, ā, he tohu o te ako o tō tinana ki te whawhai i te huaketo. E kore e roa te pānga o ngā pānga kino, ā, e kore e aukati i a koe mai i te whiwhinga i te pota tuarua, te mahi rānei i ngā mahi o ia rā. Ka whai pānga pea ētahi pānga kino i tō kaha ki te taraiwa mō tētahi wā poto, te whakamahi mīhini rānei. Ko ngā pānga nui e whākina mai ana ko te: te mamae, te pupuhi rānei i te wāhi i werohia te ngenge, te ruha rānei ka ānini te māhunga ka mamae ngā uaua ka wiriwiri te mamae pona te kirikā te wherowhero i te wāhi werohanga te paipairuaki Ko ētahi pānga kino ka kitea nuitia i muri i te pota tuarua. Tērā anō ētahi pānga kino tino mokorea, engari he tino taumaha. Ko te myocarditis te mumuratanga o te taha uaua manawa, ā, e mōhiotia ana hei pānga kino mokorea o te kano ārai mate Pfizer. Ka uru ki ngā tohumate te: mamae uma ohorere hou hē o te manawa manawataki rerekē. Ka taea e koe te whāki i ngā pānga kino ki te CARM, arā, The Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring. He pātengi raraunga a CARM o ngā mōhiohio mō ngā tauhohenga kino (pānga kino) ki ngā rongoā me ngā kano ārai mate i Aotearoa. Te whāki i tētahi tauhohenga kino (external link) He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro me te tono i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, me te kite i ngā whakamātautau KOWHEORI kua whakahaeretia e koe. Ko te wāhitau paetukutuku ko mycovidrecord.health.nz Mā tēnei pae tukutuku ka taea e koe: Te tono i tētahi kape o āu mauhanga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - kei roto ngā tau tira, ngā tau pota, te ingoa kano ārai mate me te kaiwhakaputa, me ngā kano ārai mate o tāwāhi kua tonoa e koe kia tāpiritia ki tō pūkete hauora. Mēnā ka hiahia koe i ēnei kōrero mō tētahi atu, waea ki 0800 222 478 Te tono i tētahi My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ka taea te tono i ngā mōhiohio mōu ake, mō tētahi atu rānei. Te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei manatoko i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. Ka taea te tono i ngā mōhiohio mōu ake, mō tētahi atu rānei. Te tiro i ō hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 Tukua ake ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere . Ka taea e koe te tāpiri i tētahi hua whakamātautau, mōu, mō tētahi atu rānei. Kua kore te Kāwanatanga e hiahia kia whiwhi koe i te My Vaccine Pass e uru ai koe ki ngā pakihi, ngā takahanga, ngā ratonga rānei. Ka taea tonu e te pakihi te kōwhiri kia whiwhi My Vaccine Pass te tangata i mua o te kuhunga mēnā he take hauora, haumaru hoki o te mau i tētahi. Engari ko ngā pakihi me ngā rōpū ka kōwhiri kia whiwhi koe i tētahi My Vaccine Pass hei tikanga whakauru, e kore e taea te aukati i te hunga kei raro i te 12 tau te kuhu atu ina kore he My Vaccine Pass. Rapu kōrero mō te My Covid Record Te aromatawai me te whakamana i ngā kano ārai mate | Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Ngā pānga kino me ngā tauhohenga o ngā kano ārai mate — Te Manatū Hauora (external link) Mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca | Pokapū Tohutohu Awhikiri (external link) Ngā mōhiotanga rūkahu me ngā tāware --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te whakamahi i te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record, te wāhi e taea ai e koe te whakauru atu ki ngā mōhiohio mō tō pūkete KOWHEORI-19. Ko Taku Tohu Ārai Mate he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Rapu me pēhea te whakaatu i tō taunakitanga tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ina haere koe ki tāwāhi. He taupānga koreutu te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ka taea e ngā umanga, ngā taiopenga me ngā huihuinga te whakamahi hei matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te whakamahi i te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record, te wāhi e taea ai e koe te whakauru atu ki ngā mōhiohio mō tō pūkete KOWHEORI-19. Ko Taku Tohu Ārai Mate he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Rapu me pēhea te whakaatu i tō taunakitanga tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ina haere koe ki tāwāhi. He taupānga koreutu te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ka taea e ngā umanga, ngā taiopenga me ngā huihuinga te whakamahi hei matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated Taku Pūkete Kowheori | My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- Ko te tauwāhi ko mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) , ā, ka mahi i runga i ngā rorohiko katoa, waea atamai rānei. He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro me te tono i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, me te kite i ngā whakamātautau KOWHEORI kua whakahaeretia e koe. Mā tēnei pae tukutuku ka taea e koe: Te tono i tētahi kape o āu mauhanga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - kei roto ngā tau tira, ngā tau pota, te ingoa kano ārai mate me te kaiwhakaputa, me ngā kano ārai mate o tāwāhi kua tonoa e koe kia tāpiritia ki tō pūkete hauora. Mēnā ka hiahia koe i ēnei kōrero mō tētahi atu, waea ki 0800 222 478 Te tono i tētahi My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ka taea te tono i ngā mōhiohio mōu ake, mō tētahi atu rānei. Te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei manatoko i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. Ka taea te tono i ngā mōhiohio mōu ake, mō tētahi atu rānei. Te tiro i ō hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 Te tukuatu ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere . Ka taea e koe te tāpiri i tētahi hua whakamātautau, mōu, mō tētahi atu rānei. Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau te whakauru atu ki My Covid Record: Kaua e toha i tō takiuru me tō kupuhipa My Covid Record ki tētahi atu. Haere ki mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) ka pēhi, ka pāwhiri rānei i te Waitohu Ake . Mā tēnei e tīmata ai te tukanga o te hanga i tētahi My Health Account - otirā e āhei ai koe ki ō mōhiohio hauora tuihono. Me whiwhi koe i tāu ake wāhitau īmēra ki te whakarite i tētahi pūkete. Ka taea te manatoko i tētahi pūkete mā te; Raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei, tētahi uruwhenua, tiwhikete whānautanga o Ahitereiria rānei Te tāuru i ngā taipitopito o tō kaituku ratonga hauora Tētahi pūkete real me kua oti kē te manatoko Raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei, tētahi uruwhenua, tiwhikete whānautanga o Ahitereiria rānei Te tāuru i ngā taipitopito o tō kaituku ratonga hauora Tētahi pūkete real me kua oti kē te manatoko Takiuru ki My Covid Record mā te ingoa kaiwhakamahi me te kupumuna o My Health Account, mā te takiuru me te kupuhipa rānei o tō Real Me. Kia takiuru ake koe ki My Covid Record, ka kite koe i tō pūkete KOWHEORI-19. Ina kite koe i ētahi hapa i tō pūkete, ka taea e koe te whakakī i te puka tuihono e kīia nei ko Change of details form , te īmēra rānei ki help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Mēnā e raruraru ana tō tono i tētahi tiwhikete, pūkete rānei mō tētahi atu ka taea e koe te waea ki: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Mēnā e raruraru ana tō tukuatu i tētahi whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere mō tētahi atu, ka taea e koe te waea ki: 0800 555 728 (8am ki te 8pm, Mane ki te Paraire) --- Section Separator --- Ko te tauwāhi ko mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) , ā, ka mahi i runga i ngā rorohiko katoa, waea atamai rānei. He pae tukutuku a My Covid Record, e āhei ai koe ki te tiro me te tono i tō pūkete kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, me te kite i ngā whakamātautau KOWHEORI kua whakahaeretia e koe. Mā tēnei pae tukutuku ka taea e koe: Te tono i tētahi kape o āu mauhanga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 - kei roto ngā tau tira, ngā tau pota, te ingoa kano ārai mate me te kaiwhakaputa, me ngā kano ārai mate o tāwāhi kua tonoa e koe kia tāpiritia ki tō pūkete hauora. Mēnā ka hiahia koe i ēnei kōrero mō tētahi atu, waea ki 0800 222 478 Te tono i tētahi My Vaccine Pass - he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Ka taea te tono i ngā mōhiohio mōu ake, mō tētahi atu rānei. Te tono i tētahi Tiwhikete Kano Ārai Hāereere - hei manatoko i tō tūnga kano ārai mate i tāwāhi. Ka taea te tono i ngā mōhiohio mōu ake, mō tētahi atu rānei. Te tiro i ō hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 Te tukuatu ō hua Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere . Ka taea e koe te tāpiri i tētahi hua whakamātautau, mōu, mō tētahi atu rānei. Ka taea e ngā tāngata katoa o Aotearoa, pakeke ake i te 12 tau te whakauru atu ki My Covid Record: Kaua e toha i tō takiuru me tō kupuhipa My Covid Record ki tētahi atu. Haere ki mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) ka pēhi, ka pāwhiri rānei i te Waitohu Ake . Mā tēnei e tīmata ai te tukanga o te hanga i tētahi My Health Account - otirā e āhei ai koe ki ō mōhiohio hauora tuihono. Me whiwhi koe i tāu ake wāhitau īmēra ki te whakarite i tētahi pūkete. Ka taea te manatoko i tētahi pūkete mā te; Raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei, tētahi uruwhenua, tiwhikete whānautanga o Ahitereiria rānei Te tāuru i ngā taipitopito o tō kaituku ratonga hauora Tētahi pūkete real me kua oti kē te manatoko Raihana hautū waka o Aotearoa, he uruwhenua, he tiwhikete whānautanga, kirirarau rānei, tētahi uruwhenua, tiwhikete whānautanga o Ahitereiria rānei Te tāuru i ngā taipitopito o tō kaituku ratonga hauora Tētahi pūkete real me kua oti kē te manatoko Takiuru ki My Covid Record mā te ingoa kaiwhakamahi me te kupumuna o My Health Account, mā te takiuru me te kupuhipa rānei o tō Real Me. Kia takiuru ake koe ki My Covid Record, ka kite koe i tō pūkete KOWHEORI-19. Ina kite koe i ētahi hapa i tō pūkete, ka taea e koe te whakakī i te puka tuihono e kīia nei ko Change of details form , te īmēra rānei ki help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Mēnā e raruraru ana tō tono i tētahi tiwhikete, pūkete rānei mō tētahi atu ka taea e koe te waea ki: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Mēnā e raruraru ana tō tukuatu i tētahi whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere mō tētahi atu, ka taea e koe te waea ki: 0800 555 728 (8am ki te 8pm, Mane ki te Paraire) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated Taku tohu ārai mate | My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, kāore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi He waehere QR a Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, e taea ai te whakamahi hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Ko tēnei anake te momo hāpono e whakaaetia ana. E kore e whakaaetia te kāri kano ārai mate waiporoporo i whiwhi pea koe i muri i tō werohanga ki te kano ārai mate, tētahi reta whakaū kano ārai mate rānei, e whakaaetia ana hei hāpono o tō tūnga kano ārai mate. E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Ka taea e koe te tono Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mēnā: he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, ā, kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer i Aotearoa. kua werohia ki te kano ārai mate koe i tāwāhi otirā he kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia (external link) . kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i Aotearoa. he aweretanga hauora tāu. Kei tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate tō ingoa, te rā whānau me te waehere QR. Ka taea e koe te puri ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mōnehu tō tohu e ono marama i muri i te rā tuku. Ko te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record te huarahi tere e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. He wā poto noa iho te roa o te tono i tō tohu, ā, ka īmēratia atu ki a koe i roto i te 24 hāora. Rapu me pēhea te rēhita mō te My Covid Record Kia hono ake koe ki My Covid Record: Takiaru. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpako ‘My Vaccine Pass’ (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) ka tīpako i ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request pass’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tohu hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tohu ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Mēnā kāore koe e uru atu ki My Covid Record, e hiahia ana rānei ki te tono tohu mā tētahi atu, tēnā whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Me tono koe ki Te Manatū Hauora mēnā he pūkete kano ārai mate tāhau nō tāwāhi hei tāpiri ake ki te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI o Aotearoa (CIR). Me oti tēnei mahi i mua i tō āheinga ki te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tiwhikete o tāwāhi (external link) Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā ngā take hauora, tērā tētahi tukanga whiwhi tohu whakawātea e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Me kōrero koe ki to tākuta, a, māna e tono mōu. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakawāteatanga me ngā tiwhikete (external link) --- Section Separator --- Kua kore e hiahiatia te My Vaccine Pass. Heoi kei te pakihi te tikanga ki te whakamahi tonu, kāore rānei. Ka mau tonu ngā whakaturetanga kano ārai mate a te kāwanatanga i ētahi rāngai mahi i te mea he pānga auau ngā kaimahi i ēnei wāhi, ki te hunga e mōrearea ana kei pā te mate taumaha o te KOWHEORI-19, he nui ake rānei te mōrearea o te pānga ki te KOWHEORI-19. Ngā kano ārai me te mahi --- Section Separator --- He waehere QR a Taku Tohu Ārai Mate, e taea ai te whakamahi hei hāpono i tō tūnga kano ārai mate. Ko tēnei anake te momo hāpono e whakaaetia ana. E kore e whakaaetia te kāri kano ārai mate waiporoporo i whiwhi pea koe i muri i tō werohanga ki te kano ārai mate, tētahi reta whakaū kano ārai mate rānei, e whakaaetia ana hei hāpono o tō tūnga kano ārai mate. E kore te hunga i raro iho i te 12 tau, 3 marama te pakeke e mate ki te whakaatu i te hāpono o te kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te Pūnaha Whakamaru KOWHEORI-19 Ka taea e koe te tono Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mēnā: he pakeke ake koe i te 12 tau, ā, kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 Pfizer i Aotearoa. kua werohia ki te kano ārai mate koe i tāwāhi otirā he kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia (external link) . kua werohia koe ki ngā pota e rua o te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca i Aotearoa. he aweretanga hauora tāu. Kei tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate tō ingoa, te rā whānau me te waehere QR. Ka taea e koe te puri ki tētahi pūrere matihiko, pēnei i tō waea, ka taea rānei te tā i tētahi kape ōkiko. Ka mōnehu tō tohu e ono marama i muri i te rā tuku. Ko te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record te huarahi tere e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. He wā poto noa iho te roa o te tono i tō tohu, ā, ka īmēratia atu ki a koe i roto i te 24 hāora. Rapu me pēhea te rēhita mō te My Covid Record Kia hono ake koe ki My Covid Record: Takiaru. I te wāhanga o ‘Passes and certificates’, tīpakona te ‘Request pass or certificate’. Ka huaki te mata ‘Select a pass or certificate’. Tīpako ‘My Vaccine Pass’ (Taku Tohu Ārai Mate) ka tīpako i ‘Continue’. I te mata ‘Your details’ tāurua te wāhitau īmēra e tukuna ai tō Taku Tohu Ārai Mate mate, kātahi ka tīpako i te ‘Request pass’. Ka whakaatu mai tētahi mata whakaū. Ko te tikanga ka tae atu he īmēra ki a koe me tō tohu hei te 24 hāora. Kia whiwhi koe i te īmēra, ka taea e koe te puri i tō tohu ki tō waea mā te pāwhiri i te pātene e kī ana ‘Add to Apple Wallet’, mō Google Play rānei, ‘Save to phone’. Ka taea rānei e koe te tikiake me te tā i te PDF. Mēnā kāore koe e uru atu ki My Covid Record, e hiahia ana rānei ki te tono tohu mā tētahi atu, tēnā whakapā atu ki te rōpū o Te Manatū Hauora mā te īmēra, te waea rānei. Īmēra: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Waea: 0800 222 478 (8am ki te 5pm, Mane ki te Paraire) Me tono koe ki Te Manatū Hauora mēnā he pūkete kano ārai mate tāhau nō tāwāhi hei tāpiri ake ki te Rēhita Awhikiri KOWHEORI o Aotearoa (CIR). Me oti tēnei mahi i mua i tō āheinga ki te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā tiwhikete o tāwāhi (external link) Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te whiwhi i te kano ārai mate Pfizer nā ngā take hauora, tērā tētahi tukanga whiwhi tohu whakawātea e whiwhi ai koe i te Taku Tohu Ārai Mate. Me kōrero koe ki to tākuta, a, māna e tono mōu. Rapua ētahi atu kōrero mō ngā whakawāteatanga me ngā tiwhikete (external link) --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home News and data Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. What you need to know Vaccination rates around NZ Media conferences Traffic lights map Latest case numbers --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Winter is just around the corner and with it, a risk of catching COVID-19 again. See the latest guidance. Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. --- Section Separator --- The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Report a breach online
Home News and data Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Data and statistics available COVID-19 cases Vaccine data COVID-19 data portal COVID-19 modelling reports Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 16 May 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 262,245 Paediatric first doses administered (5 to 11) 262,245 Paediatric first doses administered (5 to 11) 120,887 Paediatric second doses administered (5 to 11) 120,887 Paediatric second doses administered (5 to 11) 2,645,189 Booster doses administered (16+) 2,645,189 Booster doses administered (16+) --- Section Separator --- Check our vaccinations map to find out how many people in your DHB or small area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- This data is updated every weekday. For weekend case numbers visit the Ministry of Health website: Latest news | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 16 May 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19 and testing in New Zealand. This includes: Current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics Source of COVID-19 cases Testing for COVID-19 We update this data every weekday. For weekend case numbers, visit the Ministry of Health website: Latest news | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 data and statistics | health.govt.nz (external link) 415 Cases in hospital 415 Cases in hospital 7,061 New community cases 7,061 New community cases 47 Cases recently arrived from overseas 47 Cases recently arrived from overseas 53,893 Active community cases 53,893 Active community cases --- Section Separator --- Last updated 16 May 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and COVID-19 related deaths. COVID-19 related deaths include: people whose cause of death was not COVID-19 but they had COVID-19 when they died people whose cause of death is still under investigation. COVID-19 current cases data | health.govt.nz (external link) 5 COVID-19 related deaths reported in the last 24 hours 5 COVID-19 related deaths reported in the last 24 hours 929 People who have died within 28 days of testing positive for COVID-19 929 People who have died within 28 days of testing positive for COVID-19 978 Total number of publicly reported COVID-19 related deaths 978 Total number of publicly reported COVID-19 related deaths --- Section Separator --- Last updated 16 May 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Testing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) 12,510 RATs reported in last 24 hours 12,510 RATs reported in last 24 hours 1,843 PCR tests in last 24 hours 1,843 PCR tests in last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | stats.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If the data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you are a researcher. COVID-19 data resources | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home News and data Map of COVID-19 vaccination rates in New Zealand Find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- This map shows the vaccination rates for areas around New Zealand. Type your address to see the proportion of people who have received their first, second or booster dose in your area, compared with the national average. --- Section Separator --- Age group Dose Ethnicity Map areas A Statistical Area 2 is similar to a suburb — there are 2,156 in NZ. Territorial Authorities are our city councils and district councils — there are 67 in NZ. There are 20 District Health Boards (DHBs) in NZ. Boosters are for the 16+ population. National average is the percentage of eligible people in New Zealand who have received their first, second or booster dose. Data source: Ministry of Health (external link) Map key under 70% 70 to 79% 80 to 89% 90% and over N/A Map key under 70% 70 to 79% 80 to 89% 90% and over N/A A Statistical Area 2 is similar to a suburb — there are 2,156 in NZ. Territorial Authorities are our city councils and district councils — there are 67 in NZ. There are 20 District Health Boards (DHBs) in NZ. Boosters are for the 16+ population. National average is the percentage of eligible people in New Zealand who have received their first, second or booster dose. Data source: Ministry of Health (external link)
Displaying 1-10 of 960 updates 16 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 13 May 2022 Winter is just around the corner and with it, a risk of catching COVID-19 again. See the latest guidance. 13 May 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 13 May 2022 If you are up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccinations you can download an updated My Vaccine Pass from 24 May. 12 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 11 May 2022 New Zealand’s border will reopen to all tourists and visa holders from 11:59pm 31 July 2022. 11 May 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 10 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Health Minister Andrew Little was in Auckland this afternoon to see the first shipment of molnupiravir, the second oral anti-viral COVID-19 medicine to arrive in the country. Anti-virals stop people with mild COVID-19 symptoms from becoming very sick and needing to go to hospital, and because they are pills, they are easy for people to take at home. New Zealand was one of the first countries to secure access to supplies of molnupiravir. It was approved this month by medicines regulator Medsafe, and the first shipment has just arrived. Vaccination is still our first and best line of defence, but it is important to have a range of treatments available for people who contract COVID-19 and are at risk of becoming seriously ill. We already have 4 medicines — Baricitinib, Ronapreve, Remdesivir and Tocilizumab —being used in hospitals, and this month another anti-viral, Paxlovid, started being used to treat people at home. Adding molnupiravir into the mix means doctors have got a range of medicines to combat the worst symptoms of COVID-19 and protect people who are immunocompromised or have complex health conditions. It also helps prevent the health system from being overwhelmed. Another medicine, Evusheld, a prophylactic treatment which can prevent people who can’t have vaccines from getting COVID-19, is awaiting Medsafe approval. All COVID-19 medicines are funded through the Government’s COVID-19 fund.
The Ministry of Health is continuing to monitor international evidence on reinfection rates. Current evidence shows the chance of having COVID-19 again within 90 days of a first infection, especially if it is the same variant, is low but it can occasionally happen. Ensuring you minimise your chances of catching COVID-19 again is especially important for: older people those with higher risk health conditions people who have frequent close contact with vulnerable people. People who become unwell with respiratory symptoms within 90 days following a COVID-19 infection but are low risk, should stay at home and recover until 24 hours after most symptoms clear up. We do nott advise routinely retesting at home within this period but if someone becomes increasingly unwell they should seek advice from their doctor or Healthline. Those more at-risk people who become unwell again within 90 days of their initial illness should seek further advice from a health practitioner. If you become unwell more than 90 days after a COVID-19 infection you should follow the same advice as for a first infection. It is important to take any respiratory illness seriously and take time to recover. We are heading into the colder months — traditionally a time when there is also more sickness in general in the population. New Zealanders are well versed in following public health guidance — now is not the time to give up on those. Please continue to: stay at home if you are unwell practise good hand hygiene wear a face mask when out in public maintain physical distance from others when possible. Vaccination remains a key defence against winter ills and chills — both the COVID-19 vaccine and the influenza vaccine. For more information on reinfection, visit: Catching COVID-19 again | health.govt.nz (external link)
The change means residence class visa holders not vaccinated against COVID-19 will be able to enter New Zealand from 6 May 2022. The change allows New Zealand permanent residents, and Australian citizens ordinarily resident in New Zealand, to travel in and out of the country. Under the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Air Border) Order, and because of the public health risk at the time, unvaccinated residence visa holders have not been able to enter New Zealand since November 2021. There is now a variation to the Order, on the basis of the high numbers of people in New Zealand who are vaccinated, combined with how common the Omicron variant has become. This means the risk posed to our healthcare system from overseas returnees is now much lower. The Government acknowledges the difficulties some residents have faced in remaining overseas during this period and are pleased to be able to make this change. Caution has served us well during the past two years. As we continue to move through the Omicron outbreak and peak, we will continue to remove restrictions when advised it is safe to do so. In the first instance, the broadened criteria for return is being enabled by the Director-General of Health signing a class exemption which allows unvaccinated travellers holding either a Permanent Resident visa or a Resident visa, and Australian citizens who live in New Zealand, to enter the country. The class exemption will not prevent people in other groups from continuing to apply for exemptions based on their individual circumstances. From 11:59pm NZ time 5 May 2022, when the class exemption goes into effect, a manual process will be used to approve Traveller Declarations made by unvaccinated people in these groups. Travellers whose flights to New Zealand depart after 11:59pm NZ time 5 May 2022, need to call the New Zealand Traveller Declaration Contact Centre for details on how to make their Traveller Declaration. If you are calling from overseas, call +64 4 9315799 If you are calling from New Zealand, call 0800 359 269 If you are calling from Australia, call 1800 359 269 Then from 13 May 2022, all unvaccinated New Zealand residence class visa holders will be able to do their Traveller Declaration online. Further amendments to the air and maritime border settings are being considered.
Crew scheduled to disembark their ship will need to undergo a COVID-19 rapid antigen test (RAT) before disembarking. This test will be referred to as Day 0/1 test. If the crew member is still in the community or is planning to disembark the ship again more than 120 hours after their first test, they will be required to complete a second test (a Day 5/6 test). In some instances, maritime crew may still be required to isolate on board a ship — f or example, if they test positive for COVID-19, or if they are considered a Household Contact of a positive case. The change has been introduced to help bring the rules for the maritime border into closer alignment with the air border rules. This amendment does not open the maritime border to any new groups of people, or classes of vessel, such as cruise ships.
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern Minister for the COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Immigration Minister Kris Faafoi Watch the livestream below. --- Section Separator --- 7,970 new community cases 381 cases in hospital 51,929 active community cases 17,397 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,928 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 7,970 community cases, 381 hospitalisations and 28 deaths. Today’s 7-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,420 – last Tuesday it was 7,746. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 28 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include one person who died in February, 5 in March, 11 in April, and 7 who died over the previous 7 days. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 902 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 15. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 2 people were from Northland, 5 from Auckland, 3 from Waikato, 3 from Bay of Plenty, 2 from Whanganui, 3 from the Wellington region, 4 from the Canterbury region and 6 from Southern. One was in their 40s; 1 was in their 50s; 2 were in their 60s; 8 were in their 70s; 11 were in their 80s; 5 were in their 90s. Eighteen were men and 10 were women. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Note: 2 of the deaths reported previously have been removed from our totals, as it has now been determined that they are not a COVID-19 case. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Chief Science Advisor Dr Ian Town Watch the media conference here. --- Section Separator --- 11,063 new community cases 47 new cases identified at the border 622 cases in hospital 1,885 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 10,860 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,640 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 11,063 community cases, 622 hospitalisations and 16 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of case numbers continues to decline, with today's seven-day rolling average at 9,731 — last Tuesday it was 12,785. The number of reported community cases is expected to continue to fluctuate day to day and is usually lower over the weekend with less reporting of results and testing. There are 3 actions that everyone can do to help protect themselves and others. Be up to date with vaccinations, including a booster if you’ve not yet had one. Wear a mask. Masks are still required in many indoor settings. A good rule of thumb is to wear a mask indoors whenever you’re not at home. Stay home and avoid others if you’re unwell. The 11 millionth COVID-19 vaccination was administered yesterday, representing another significant milestone for the vaccine rollout. This achievement is a testament to the hard work of health providers throughout Aotearoa who continue to ensure as many New Zealanders as possible can get a COVID-19 vaccination, whether is a first dose, second dose, or booster. If you or your whānau are due for a COVID-19 vaccination, please make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 16 people with COVID-19. The deaths of all 16 people were reported in the past 24 hours. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 516 and the seven-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today: 6 were from the Auckland region 1 was from Waikato 2 were from Whanganui 1 was from MidCentral 3 were from the Wellington region 2 were from Canterbury 1 was from Southern. One person was aged in their 30s, 2 were aged in their 50s, 3 in their 70s, 6 in their 80s, and 4 were over 90. Five were female and 11 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Minister for the COVID-19 Response Chris Hipkins Watch the media conference here. --- Section Separator --- 9,495 new community cases 47 new cases identified at the border 551 cases in hospital 2,814 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 15,547 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,708 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 9,495 community cases, 551 hospitalisations and 15 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of case numbers continues to decline, with today's seven-day rolling average at 9,288 – last Wednesday it was 12,307. The number of reported community cases is expected to continue to fluctuate day to day but the overall trend remains an overall reduction in reported cases. There are three actions that everyone can do to help protect themselves and others. Be up to date with vaccinations, including a booster if you’ve not yet had one. Wear a mask. Masks are still required in many indoor settings. A good rule of thumb is to wear a mask in indoor public settings. Stay home and avoid others if you’re unwell. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 15 people with COVID-19. These deaths all occurred over the past eight days, including 11 in the past two days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 531 and the seven-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, one was from Northland, four from the Auckland region, one from Waikato, one from Bay of Plenty, one from Lakes DHB area, two from MidCentral, three from Nelson Marlborough, and two from Canterbury. One person was aged in their 40s, two in their 50s, two in their 60s, four in their 70s, five in their 80s, and one over 90. Eight were female and seven were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media conference starts at 1pm. Speakers: Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield Watch the livestream below. --- Section Separator --- 7,441 new community cases 398 cases in hospital 52,826 active community cases 15,013 total RATs in the last 24 hours 4,026 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 7,441 community cases, 398 hospitalisations and 29 deaths. Today’s seven-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,548 — last Friday it was 7,555. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 29 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include 14 people who have died in the previous 2 days, and an additional 15 people who died between 24 March and 7 May. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 940 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 6 were from Auckland; 1 from Waikato, 1 from Taranaki, 1 from Tairawhiti, 2 from Hawkes Bay, 2 from Bay of Plenty, 1 from Whanganui, 4 from the Greater Wellington region, 1 from Nelson Marlborough, 6 from Canterbury, and 4 from Southern. 2 people were in their 20s, 3 in their 30s, 3 in their 50s, 4 in their 60s, 6 in their 70s, 3 in their 80s and 8 over the age of 90. Of these people, 14 were women and 15 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
From February 2021 to November 2021, the COVID-19 Vaccine Independent Safety Monitoring Board (the Board) met to review and discuss safety data for the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. The Board has now published an interim report about its findings. The key findings have previously been publicly reported. During this period more than 7 million doses were administered. Almost 90% of the eligible population (12 years and older) had received 2 doses of the vaccine. Given the large proportion of the population being vaccinated in a relatively short period of time, it is understandable that there were a number of adverse events reported following vaccination. A number of events can also be expected to occur coincidentally in the period following vaccination. Of the reported adverse events, less than 5% are classified as serious. Of the 39,973 adverse events following immunisation reported during this time period, 1,593 serious cases were reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). A serious adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) is one that requires hospitalisation or prolongs existing hospitalisation, causes persistent or significant disability or incapacity, is life threatening, causes a congenital anomaly/birth defect, results in death or is a medically important event or reaction. The Board considered 18 safety signals (information on a new or known adverse event that may be caused by the vaccine and requires further investigation) which led to 28 recommendations to either Medsafe or the Ministry of Health. Out of the 18 safety signals for the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine, only one has been confirmed in New Zealand, with myocarditis and pericarditis identified as very rare adverse reactions to the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. The Board has been reassured by both the international and New Zealand data presented, that the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine is a very safe vaccine. The full report is available on the Ministry of Health website: COVID-19 Vaccine Independent Safety Monitoring Board (external link)
The border will fully open 2 months early from 11:59pm 31 July 2022. Significantly simplified immigration processes that provides faster processing for businesses. New Green List that includes over 85 hard to fill roles created to attract and retain high-skilled workers to fill skill shortages. Green List will provide streamlined and prioritised pathway to residency incentivising high skilled healthcare, engineers, trade and tech sector workers to relocate to New Zealand long term. Visa extensions for around 20,000 migrants already in New Zealand to ensure skilled workers stay in country. New sector specific agreements, to help industries transition from a reliance on low-wage, low skill migrant labour, including additional measures to support the rebuild of our tourism sector. Cruise ships able to return with the opening of the maritime border from 31 July 2022. Full resumption of international education from 31 July 2022. Apprenticeship Boost extended to the end of 2023, supporting an extra 38,000 New Zealanders into trades. Online visitor visa applications reopen to Pacific Island Forum countries (excluding Australia) from 16 May 2022. A major package of reforms announced today include an early opening of New Zealand’s border and a simplification of immigration settings, to address the immediate skill shortages in New Zealand and speed up the economic recovery from COVID-19. New Zealand's international border will reopen to all tourists and visa holders 2 months earlier than planned on 31 July. This will be welcome news for families, businesses and our migrant communities. It also provides certainty and good preparation time for airlines and cruise ship companies planning a return to New Zealand in the peak spring and summer seasons. A major constraint on business is access to skilled labour. This plan will increase the available pool of labour, while also speeding up tourism recovery. This follows our previous reconnecting work which has seen approvals granted for over 29,000 critical workers, 5,000 students, working holidaymakers, Australian tourists, and visa-waiver visitors already able to enter the country. By helping to relieve urgent skills shortages, opening up tourism and putting our immigration settings on a more secure footing, we are building on the plan to secure New Zealand’s economic future. Through the Accredited Employer Work Visa, employers: will not need to provide as much information can use their own recruitment processes to prove no New Zealanders are available for work once accredited, Immigration New Zealand will endeavour to have these visas processed within 30 days. The Government has worked closely with businesses on these reforms. The Government recognises that shift for some sectors is more challenging than others by establishing new sector agreements to assist with the transition. They will provide access for specified sectors to lower-paid migrant workers, and all those employers can continue to hire working holidaymakers at any wage. The tourism and hospitality industries in particular have been hit hard by the pandemic. The Government has agreed to temporarily exempt tourism and hospitality businesses from paying the median wage to recruit migrants on an Accredited Employer Work Visa into most roles. Instead, a lower wage threshold of $25 per hour will be required until April 2023. This follows the recent $27 per hour border exception that was granted around certain snow season roles to help the sector prepare for winter tourists. New sector agreements for the care; construction and infrastructure; meat processing; seafood; and seasonal snow and adventure tourism sectors will provide for a short-term or ongoing need for access to lower-paid migrants. Hiring migrants on the Accredited Employer Work visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) The full reopening is a significant milestone for the international education sector, which can now start to rebuild sustainably, with a big focus on value and by attracting students. More than 5,000 international students have already been confirmed for entry as part of previous border exemptions, which means they can be here by mid-July. From the end of July, all international students who meet normal entry criteria can enrol for study here. Changes announced today seek to attract students to New Zealand to learn, while also shutting the backdoor route to residency. These changes include: Students in non-degree level courses will not get post-study work rights except where they are studying and then working in specified shortage and skilled occupations. For degree-level and other eligible international students the length of time they can work after their studies will mirror the time they study in New Zealand. Currently some students can work for up to 3 years after just 30 weeks’ study. Masters and PhD students will retain the right to work in New Zealand for up to 3 years after their studies. Students will also not be able to apply for a second post-study visa in New Zealand. New Zealand has a strong international education brand and is universally regarded as a place that students want to come to study. It enriches us as well as connecting us to the world, and strengthens our reputation offshore. Changes for the international education sector | immigration.govt.nz (external link) The Government has also announced new rebalanced immigration settings which will help businesses access the key skills they need while ensuring wages and working conditions are improved for everyone. Our plan is to grow skills at home. Over the past 2 years, over 190,000 New Zealanders have benefitted from Government investment in trades training, including apprenticeships. An extension to the Apprenticeship Boost scheme has already been announced, which will see a further 38,000 New Zealanders supported into a trade. The cornerstone of the immigration rebalance is the new Green List which will incentivise and attract high skilled migrants to New Zealand, by providing a new streamlined pathway to residency for those globally hard to fill roles. The list features 85 hard to fill roles including construction engineering, trades, health workers and tech. Our rebalanced immigration system will be simpler, reducing categories, bringing more online accessibility and streamlining application processes for businesses. Also announced today, is around 20,000 visa holders with visas expiring before 2023 are being granted either a 6-month extension or a new 2-year visa with open work conditions, so they and their employers will not be affected by this changes and we can keep the skills we need within the country. The decision to bring the final border opening date forward allows us to fully reconnect to the world of international tourists and business travellers in time for our traditional peak visitor season. Our wider tourism sector is on the way to recovery. We will be fully open to the world in mid-winter, traditionally our quietest period for visitors. Bringing forward the date allows prospective travellers to apply for visitor visas well ahead of time before taking the next step to book a flight or a cruise for future travel. Approximately 90% of cruise visits are during the warmer months of October to April, and summer is our bumper tourism season overall. Today’s announcement means it is full steam ahead for the industry who can plan with certainty for the rest of the year and beyond. The full details of the immigration rebalance, including changes to settings, can be found on the Immigration New Zealand website: New Zealand border fully reopening by July 2022 (external link)
As New Zealand reconnects with the world, we are exploring innovative COVID-19 testing technology to help keep people safe and minimise disruption as we welcome new visitors. We are constantly monitoring the latest scientific advancements to maintain our successful COVID-19 response. The Government is partnering with Air New Zealand to trial the ‘Lucira Check-It’ test kits. Using LAMP technology, the test has the potential to combine the speed of rapid antigen tests (RATs) with the accuracy of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests. LAMP tests are both cheaper than PCRs and more convenient — they are self-administered and provide results to users within 30 minutes. The accuracy of the LAMP test has already been established through clinical trials. The purpose of this trial is to prove that the test can be easily self-administered, and that the Air New Zealand crew taking part can quickly identify the results. Air New Zealand’s role in this trial demonstrates the sector’s and Government’s continued determination to keep business moving, tourists arriving, and goods flowing. The start of this trial comes as we prepare to welcome our first visitors from visa-wavier countries which is a crucial part of our economic recovery. There are many wider benefits that LAMP tests could provide to New Zealanders. These include a self-test option with quick results for travellers, border workers, healthcare workers and critical employees prior to travel or commencing work. LAMP tests could also be used for high-risk settings such as aged residential care facilities and hospitals. New Zealand is open for business, and we now want to make sure international visitors have the confidence to travel safely and easily.
We know that face masks are a crucial part of our defence against the spread of COVID-19 and using them will continue to help protect loved ones and save lives. The new process is being introduced to make sure people who have genuine reasons for not being able to wear a mask have more certainty in being able to demonstrate that. For the business community, the new cards will mean evidence that a person with the new card is exempt from the requirement to wear a mask, removing uncertainty that businesses have been dealing with. We have recognised that for some people an impairment, health conditions, a physical disability or mental health reasons can mean wearing a mask isn’t possible. These reasons are not always obvious or easy to explain and that has left some New Zealanders who are genuinely unable to wear a mask not being able to access the businesses and services they normally would. It has also meant uncomfortable situations, with people needing to explain private health information to strangers, when they are trying to do basic tasks like shopping. We have worked hard to find a solution which avoids this. The new process will be administered by the Ministry of Health and allows people who cannot wear a mask to get a personalised card to help them access businesses and services where wearing a mask is required. The new card will also help businesses. Sadly, in attempting to verify whether people are genuinely exempt, workers — especially those in retail settings such as supermarkets — have experienced escalating and unsafe behaviour from some customers. This new process gives assurance that when someone presents this card, they are genuinely exempt. COVID-19 Orders will be amended to provide that the new card is conclusive proof that someone is exempt. The new cards will be entirely optional — but they will be legally recognised as conclusive proof of a person’s exempt status, which the old cards are not. We will not be cancelling the old cards or requiring affected people to go through the process of getting a new card if they do not want to, however the old cards will not have the legitimacy of the new cards. From the end of May, people will be able to apply for a card through the Ministry of Health website and it will be issued to them digitally or by post. An 0800 call free number will be available, and it will also cater for those who need interpreter or translation services when requesting their card. Mask wearing remains an important public health measure to reduce the likelihood of COVID-19 transmission and keep us all safe. It is important we all understand that for some people wearing a face mask is difficult. This includes people with physical, intellectual or mental health impairments, and people (such as some victims of violent crime) who have experienced past trauma. Those people should still have the same right as others to access good and services. This policy change promotes this important message, and also creates a new approach to accessing exemptions through the Ministry of Health. What has been developed through extensive consultation is a balanced approach which is accessible for exempt people, gives businesses certainty and also makes it harder for others who might try to undermine the process. Notes People unable to wear a mask and who already have a non-personalised exemption card issued by the Ministry of Health or the Disabled Persons Assembly, can continue using that card. Both the new personalised cards and existing non-personalised cards issued by the Ministry of Health are optional as an aid to avoiding discrimination. The difference is that the old cards do not have legal standing and can be questioned. The new cards will provide proof of exemption. If they are questioned, the person questioning them will be at risk of triggering the duties and obligations under the Human Rights Act that protect disabled people (noting that this is defined very broadly in the Human Rights Act) Both the new personalised exemption cards and existing non-personalised exemption cards from the Ministry of Health or the Disabled Persons Assembly are optional for people who are exempt as an aid to them in avoiding discrimination. Exempt persons continue to have the same rights of access to businesses and services irrespective of their optional use of an exemption card. The new cards should be accepted by businesses because they have clear legal status as proof of exemption. Businesses continue to have a right to deny entry to people who are threatening or behaving inappropriately People who fraudulently misuse the process will be in breach of a COVID-19 Order under the COVID-19 (Public Health Response) Act 2020
The revised COVID-19 Protection Framework we introduced 3 weeks ago has effectively managed the Omicron outbreak at Red. Over the past few weeks we have seen a sustained reduction in cases and hospitalisations despite the relaxation of settings, so we are confident a move to Orange can lock in those gains while helping the country return to a greater degree of normality. We know this shift down to Orange will be welcome news to many as we head into Easter weekend and the school holidays and connect with loved ones. But there is still Omicron in the community, and the threat of new variants arriving here is still risk, so everyone should continue to be cautious and think about the health of others, especially those who are immunocompromised or at higher risk of long-term health impacts from infection. It is also important to make a plan in case you get COVID-19 on holiday. If you are not using your own vehicle to travel — such as relying on flights or public transport — you need to make sure you can isolate where you are. If you get COVID-19 while travelling How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- Under Orange there are no indoor capacity limits and the seated and separated rule for hospitality venues lifts, so bars, cafes and restaurants are able to fill up again. Wearing a face mask at Orange is still important, especially with capacity limits removed. People are required to wear a face mask in many indoor settings. Next to being vaccinated and having a booster, face masks are our main defence against COVID-19 at Orange. Life at Orange Face masks at Orange
The Ministry of Health's Post Vaccine Symptom Check survey results show that most tamariki aged 5 to 11 did not experience a reaction after receiving the child Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. The majority of tamariki who experienced a reaction after receiving the vaccine only experienced a minor reaction. National Immunisation Programme Group Manager Post Event, Dr Tim Hanlon, says that based on the survey results from nearly 18,000 parents and caregivers across Aotearoa New Zealand, no new safety concerns have been identified for the child Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine and the reactions are similar to those seen in the clinical trial. Overall, just 21% of caregivers reported that their child experienced a reaction after their vaccination. The most commonly reported reactions were tiredness, a reaction at the injection site, headaches and body pain. These are all known and expected side effects of the vaccine. For tamariki who missed school or other daily activities, the majority were reported to have missed 1 day or less after their vaccination. Less than 1% of tamariki visited a doctor after vaccination. The survey did not ask whether the missed activities or visit to a doctor were due to a vaccination reaction. Responses from parents and caregivers were captured via Post Vaccine Symptom Check, a text message survey, sent by the Ministry of Health to a random selection of the population after their COVID-19 vaccination. Post Vaccine Symptom Check is an 'active' reporting system, and the first of its kind in Aotearoa New Zealand. It complements the existing ‘passive’ reporting, which is managed by Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). We know what to expect after COVID-19 vaccinations based on data from clinical trials. Having our own reporting systems in Aotearoa New Zealand helps us to ensure that the vaccine is working as expected in a local context. Over 260,000 tamariki across the motu have now received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine. Aotearoa New Zealand has a good reporting culture in comparison to other countries, meaning that people are more likely to submit a report after vaccination, even for something minor like a headache or sore arm. Given the large number of vaccinations happening in a short timeframe, we expect to receive a high number of reports about reactions to the vaccine. The important thing we look at is the context of the reports we receive, which helps us to identify if there are any trends that might need to be investigated further. It is important that you report how you feel after your COVID-19 vaccination, even if it seems minor. You don't have to be a healthcare professional to submit a report, and you don't need to be sure that the vaccine caused the reaction you experienced. The reports we've received to date are reassuring that the COVID-19 vaccines are working the way we expect them to, and we will continue to monitor the safety of COVID-19 vaccines throughout the lifetime of their use in Aotearoa New Zealand.
This is a tragic circumstance, and the Board expresses their sympathy to the individual’s whānau and friends. The Board first reviewed the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM) report of a death in December 2021. At the time, there was not enough information available to determine the potential role of the vaccine. The Board met in March 2022 to consider all the information available, which showed that the individual had myocarditis at the time of death. In the weeks prior to their death, the individual had received a dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. The Board considers that the development of myocarditis was possibly due to vaccination with the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. It is important to note this case is with the coroner who is still investigating the cause of death. The Board also considers that the circumstances of this case does not impact or change the known information on myocarditis. This is the third death in New Zealand that is considered to be linked to vaccination with the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. All 3 cases are currently with coroners to determine the cause of death. The Ministry of Health and the Board will not be commenting further on any details about this case and ask that the whānau’s privacy is respected during this difficult time.
People who are severely immunocompromised are at higher risk of severe outcomes from COVID-19 and might not produce a sufficiently strong immune response after 2 doses of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. A third primary dose offers extra protection and may help reduce the likelihood of transmitting the virus to others. The third primary dose for children is optional but has been recommended by the COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group. Because there are specific criteria for children to qualify for a third primary dose, it is recommended that parents or guardians schedule an appointment with their health care professional who has access to the child’s medical records to confirm eligibility. Appointments to discuss eligibility are free. A prescription must also be provided by a GP or nurse practitioner before severely immunocompromised children can be given a third primary dose — with prescriptions able to be taken to any vaccination site. Your child may also be able to receive the third primary dose at the same time as their consultation, but please check with your prescriber to see if they offer the child Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. The third primary dose should be given 8 weeks after the second dose but may be given after 4 weeks depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. Talk to your child’s GP or specialist for advice on timing. It is strongly encouraged that all household contacts of someone who is severely immunocompromised (regardless of their age) are up to date with their recommended COVID-19 vaccines to help provide indirect protection. A third primary dose is also being offered to severely immunocompromised children in this age group overseas, including in Australia, the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom. Note: Given the small number of children expected to be eligible for a third primary dose, the Ministry of Health is unable to report on vaccination uptake for this group until numbers are sufficiently high enough to not identify individuals.
9,173 new community cases 385 cases in hospital 55,475 active community cases 18,636 total RATs in the last 24 hours 4,199 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 14 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 876 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 1 person was from Northland, 2 from Auckland, 1 from Waikato, 1 from MidCentral, 1 from Hawke’s Bay, 1 from the Wellington region; 6 from Canterbury and 1 from Southern. Six were in their 70, 3 in their 80s, and 5 were aged over 90. Nine were women and 5 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Today we have reached a total of 1,001,898 confirmed cases of COVID-19 since the start of the pandemic in 2020. This time last year, our confirmed case total was 2,288. New Zealander’s collective response to COVID-19 helped us to keep our case numbers low, especially in that first year when the virus was rampant internationally. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
9,392 new community cases 398 cases in hospital 52,722 active community cases 16,349 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,484 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 9 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include 8 people who have died over the past 2 days and 1 person who has died since 5 May. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 911 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 4 were from Auckland and 5 were from Canterbury. One person was their 70s — 2 in their 80s and 6 were aged over 90. Of these people, 4 were women and 5 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
9,563 new community cases 61 new cases identified at the border 528 cases in hospital 5,224 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 19,800 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,690 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 9,563 community cases, 528 hospitalisations and 16 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of case numbers continues to decline, with today's seven-day rolling average at 8,990 — last Thursday it was 11,791. The number of reported community cases is expected to continue to fluctuate day to day, but the overall trend remains an overall reduction in reported cases. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 16 people with COVID-19. These deaths all occurred over the past 13 days, including 12 in the past two days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 547 and the seven-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, five were from the Auckland region, four from Waikato, two from Bay of Plenty, one from Lakes DHB area, one from MidCentral, one from Whanganui, and two from Canterbury. Two people were aged in their 60s, six in their 70s, four in their 80s, and four over 90. Nine were female and seven were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. We are reminding you that if you are going away this Easter weekend, you should have plans in place in the event you contract COVID-19 or are identified as a household contact of a case. You would need to self-isolate and likely remain wherever you test positive or become a household contact, so there may be extra costs involved in paying for additional accommodation and changing your travel plans. If you have used your own vehicle to travel, you can travel back to your home to isolate, taking public health measures to ensure you don’t infect anyone on your way home — such as maintaining physical distance and using self-service petrol stations. However, if you have used public transport or travelled between islands, you won’t be able to isolate at your home. So it is important you have a plan and the ability to isolate where you are holidaying, if you need to do so. If you get COVID-19 while travelling If you have COVID-19 There are three actions everyone can do to help protect themselves and others this Easter weekend. Be up to date with vaccinations, including a booster if you’ve not yet had one. If you are planning to be away this long weekend, get boosted before you go. Wear a mask. Masks are still required in many indoor settings. A good rule of thumb is to wear a mask in indoor public settings as we know that mask use halves the risk of spread of COVID-19. You must also wear a face mask on all flights and public transport, in taxi and ride-share services — unless you are exempt. Stay home and avoid others if you’re unwell, isolating or waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Life at Orange Face masks at Orange Over this Easter weekend, there will be regular COVID-19 updates published and tweeted daily, apart from tomorrow — Friday 15 April. The Ministry’s 1pm statement on Saturday 16 April will include data for the prior 48 hours. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
7,061 new community cases 415 cases in hospital 53,893 active community cases 12,510 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,843 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 5 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 978 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 17. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 3 people were from the Southern region, 1 was from Auckland and 1 was from Bay of Plenty. 1 person was in their 50s, 1 person was in their 70s, and 3 were aged over 90. Of these people, 3 were women and 2 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
8,270 new community cases 38 new cases identified at the border 572 cases in hospital 1,519 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 9,594 total RATs in the last 24 hours 234 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 8,270 community cases and 5 deaths. There are 305 people in hospital and 7 people in ICU in Northern Region hospitals. Hospitalisation data for hospitals outside of the Northern Region is unavailable at this stage today and will be updated as soon as possible. The 7-day rolling average of case numbers continues to decline, with today's 7-day rolling average at 7,585 – last Tuesday it was 9,731. The number of reported community cases is expected to continue to fluctuate day to day, but the overall trend remains an overall reduction in reported cases. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 5 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 602 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 1 was from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 2 were from MidCentral and 1 was from Tairāwhiti. One was in their 70s, 3 were in their 80s, and 1 was over 90. One was female and 4 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts are with them. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
6,636 new community cases 90 new cases identified at the border 480 cases in hospital 2,426 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 11,668 total RATs in the last 24 hours 458 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- A second person who has travelled from overseas to New Zealand has been confirmed as having the BA.4 variant of Omicron. Both identified cases are currently isolating at their homes. BA.4 has been reported in southern Africa and Europe, and in New South Wales. The arrival of this sub-variant in New Zealand is not unexpected. At this stage, the public health settings already in place to manage other Omicron variants are assessed to be appropriate for managing BA.4 and no changes are required. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 7 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the previous 2 days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 757 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 11. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 3 people were from Auckland; 1 from Waikato; 1 from Bay of Plenty; 1 from Wairarapa and 1 from Canterbury. One person was in their 40s; 1 in their 50s; 3 in their 80s and 2 were aged over 90. Of these people, 1 was a woman and 6 were men. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
11,217 new community cases 60 new cases identified at the border 547 cases in hospital 2,495 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 20,595 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,800 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- The IT network issue that affected reporting of most of our data earlier today has now been resolved. The updated statement is below. Today we are reporting 11,217 community cases and 13 deaths. There are 547 people in hospital and 14 people in ICU. The 7-day rolling average of case numbers continues to decline, with today's 7-day rolling average at 7,834 – last Wednesday it was 9,288. The number of reported community cases is expected to continue to fluctuate day to day, but the overall trend remains an overall reduction in reported cases. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 13 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 615 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. The ages of those people who have died were as follows: 1 person in their 40s; 2 in their 50s; 4 in their 60s; 3 in their 80s; and 3 in their 90s or older. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, their locations were: Nelson-Marlborough (1); Auckland (1); Hutt Valley (2); Northland (1); Hawkes Bay (1); Whanganui (2); Canterbury (2); Waitemata (1); Mid-Central (1); and Taranaki (1). Five were female and 8 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts are with them. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
10,294 new community cases 66 new cases identified at the border 524 cases in hospital 2,591 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 18,757 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,608 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 10,294 community cases, 524 hospitalisations and 18 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of case numbers continues to decline, today's 7-day rolling average is 7,935, while the 7-day rolling average of cases as at last Thursday was 8,990. It is really important people continue to follow public health advice to stay at home; away from school or work if you are feeling unwell. Another way to protect you and your whānau is to get vaccinated if you have not already done so. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19 and getting boosted is an important way people can protect themselves, their whānau and their friends from the virus. Please if you are due for a vaccination, whether it be a second shot or booster, make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 18 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the past 7 days. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 633 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today: 1 person was from Northland 3 from the Auckland region 4 from Waikato 1 from Lakes 3 from Bay of Plenty 2 from MidCentral 4 from the Canterbury region. Two people were in their 50s, 2 in their 60s, 3 in their 70s, 7 in their 80s, and 4 were over 90. Ten were men and 8 were women. Out of respect to people’s family and whānau at this difficult time, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
9,390 new community cases 56 new cases identified at the border 522 cases in hospital 2,707 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 17,337 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,518 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 9,390 community cases, 522 hospitalisations and 13 deaths. Today’s seven-day rolling average is 8,166, while the seven-day rolling average of cases as at last Friday was 8,683. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 13 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the past seven days. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID-19 being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 646 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths to 11. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, one person was from Northland, six from the Auckland region, one from Waikato, one from Lakes, one from Whanganui, one from the Wellington region and two from the Canterbury region. One person was aged between 10 and 19, five in their 70s, six in their 80s, and one person was over 90. Four were male and nine were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- We are reminding you that if you are going away this ANZAC weekend, you should have plans in place in the event you contract COVID-19 or are identified as a Household Contact of a case. You would need to self-isolate and likely remain wherever you test positive or become a Household Contact, so there may be extra costs involved in paying for additional accommodation and changing your travel plans. If you have used your own vehicle to travel, you can travel back to your home to isolate, taking public health measures to ensure you don’t infect anyone on your way home – such as maintaining social distance and using self-service petrol stations. However, if you have used public transport or travelled between islands, you won’t be able to isolate at your home. So it is important you have a plan and the ability to isolate where you are holidaying, if you need to do so. There are three actions everyone can do to help protect themselves and others this long weekend. Firstly – be up to date with vaccinations, including a booster if you’ve not yet had one. If you are planning to be away, get boosted before you go. Secondly – wear a mask. Masks are still required in many indoor settings. A good rule of thumb is to wear a mask in indoor public settings as we know that mask use halves the risk of spread of COVID-19. You must also wear a face mask on all flights and public transport, in taxi and ride-share services — unless you are exempt. Face masks at Orange And thirdly – stay home and avoid others if you’re unwell, isolating or waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test.
6,380 new community cases 62 new cases identified at the border 508 cases in hospital 1,602 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 12,060 total RATs in the last 24 hours 182 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 6,380 community cases, 508 hospitalisations and four deaths. Today’s 7-day rolling average of case numbers is 8,085 – last Tuesday it was 7,585. Although this is an increase from last week, the number of reported community cases is expected to continue to fluctuate day to day and the overall trend remains a reduction in reported cases. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 4 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the previous 2 days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 687 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 2 people were from Taranaki and 2 were from Canterbury. Two were in their 70s and 2 were over 90. Two were women and 2 were men. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
9,830 new community cases 74 new cases identified at the border 473 cases in hospital 2,388 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 19,024 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,734 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 9,830 community cases, 473 hospitalisations and 23 deaths. Today’s 7-day rolling average of case numbers is 7,884 – similar to last Wednesday, when it was 7,834. The number of COVID-19 related hospital admissions has dropped and is the lowest since 2 March 2022. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 23 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have all died over the previous 6 days apart from 1 death on 3 April. The increase in deaths reported today follows a similar pattern often seen after weekends or public holidays. Delays to reporting can also be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 710 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 2 people were from the Auckland region, 4 from Bay of Plenty, 3 from Waikato, 2 from Taranaki, 2 from MidCentral, 2 from Hawke’s Bay, 1 from Hutt Valley, 1 from Capital and Coast, 5 from Canterbury and 1 from South Canterbury. One was in their 40s, 2 in their 60s, 7 in their 70s, 7 in their 80s, and 6 were over 90. Seven were women and 16 were men. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
9,047 new community cases 80 new cases identified at the border 484 cases in hospital 3,412 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 17,483 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,600 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 9,047 community cases, 484 hospitalisations and 13 deaths. Today’s seven-day rolling average of case numbers is 7,705 — similar to last Thursday, when it was 7,935. It is an ongoing reminder to remain vigilant. Please continue to follow public health advice to stay at home, away from school or work if you are feeling unwell. Another way to protect you, your whānau and friends is to get vaccinated, if you are not already. It is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19 and a booster — in addition to first and second doses — gives you greater immunity against Omicron and severe illness. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations. So, if you or your whānau are due for a COVID-19 vaccination — whether it be a first or second dose or a booster — please, make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 13 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today are for people who have died over the previous nine days, apart from two deaths on 4 April. Delays to reporting can also be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 723 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 2 people were from the Auckland region, 3 from Bay of Plenty, 2 from Waikato, 1 from Taranaki, 1 from MidCentral, 1 from Hawke’s Bay, and 3 from Canterbury. Two were in their 50s, 2 in their 60s, 1 in their 70s, 3 in their 80s, and 5 were over 90. Five were women and 8 were men. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
8,242 new community cases 74 new cases identified at the border 480 cases in hospital 4,040 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 16,472 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,584 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 8,242 community cases, 480 hospitalisations and 14 deaths. Today’s 7-day rolling average of case numbers is 7,540 — a reduction from last Friday, when it was 8,166. With ongoing community transmission across the motu it is important we all remain vigilant. Please continue to follow public health advice to stay at home, away from school or work if you are feeling unwell. Another way to protect you, your whānau and friends is to get vaccinated, if you are not already. It is free and available for everyone aged five and over. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19 and a booster — in addition to first and second doses — gives you greater immunity against Omicron and severe illness. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations. So, if you or your whānau are due for a COVID-19 vaccination — whether it be a first or second dose or a booster — please, make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 14 people with COVID-19. Eleven of the deaths being reported today are for people who have died over the previous 7 days. Three deaths were between 12 and 17 April. Delays to reporting can also be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 737 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 2 people were from the Auckland region, 1 from Bay of Plenty, 1 from Waikato, 1 from Taranaki, 1 from Whanganui, 1 from MidCentral, 1 from the Wellington region, 5 from Canterbury and 1 from Southern. One person was in their 50s, 2 in their 70s, 7 in their 80s, and 4 were over 90. Eight were women and 6 were men. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update from the Ministry of Health | health.govt.nz (external link)
9,109 new community cases 128 new cases identified at the border 481 cases in hospital 3,400 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 18,470 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,209 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- With the new school term underway, it is a timely reminder for people to continue to follow public health advice to stay at home and stay away from school or work if you are feeling unwell. Another way to protect you and your whānau is to get vaccinated if you have not already done so. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19 and getting boosted is an important way people can protect themselves, their whānau and their friends from the virus. Please if you are due for a vaccination, whether it be a second shot or booster, make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 20 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the previous 8 days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 777 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 1 person was from Northland, 1 from Auckland; 2 from Waikato; 2 from Bay of Plenty; 4 from Tairawhiti; 4 from the Greater Wellington region; 5 from Canterbury and 1 from Southern. One person was in their 50s; 3 in their 60s; 3 in their 70s; 8 in their 80s and 5 were aged over 90. Of these people, 12 were women and 8 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
8,454 new community cases 124 new cases identified at the border 481 cases in hospital 3,918 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 18,053 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,085 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- With ongoing community transmission across the motu it is important we all remain vigilant. Please continue to follow public health advice to stay at home, away from school or work if you are feeling unwell. Another way to protect yourself, your whānau and friends is to get vaccinated, if you are not already. It is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19 and a booster – in addition to first and second doses – gives you greater immunity against Omicron and severe illness. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations. So, if you or your whānau are due for a COVID-19 vaccination – whether it be a first or second dose, or a booster – please, make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 24 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include 12 people who have died over the past 3 days and an additional 12 people who have died since 5 March. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 801 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 9 people were from Auckland; 4 from Waikato; 2 from Bay of Plenty; 1 from Whanganui; 1 from MidCentral; 2 from the Greater Wellington region; 3 from Canterbury and 2 from Southern. One person was under-10; 1 was between 10 and 19-years-old, 2 were in their 40s; 1 in their 50s, 2 in their 60s; 9 in their 70s; 5 in their 80s and 3 were aged over 90. Of these people, 7 were female and 17 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
8,609 new community cases 97 new cases identified at the border 386 cases in hospital 4,311 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 16,107 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,083 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today’s 7-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,684 — last Thursday it was 7,705 . The number of community cases today is an important reminder that we all continue to have a part to play in minimising the spread of COVID-19 in our communities. Please continue to follow public health advice to stay at home, away from school or work if you are feeling unwell. Another way to protect yourself, your whānau and friends is to get vaccinated, if you are not already. It is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Vaccination remains our best defence against COVID-19, and a booster — in addition to first and second doses — gives you greater immunity against Omicron and severe illness. There is a much lower risk of being hospitalised if you are up to date with your COVID-19 vaccinations. So, if you or your whānau are due for a COVID-19 vaccination — whether it be a first or second dose or a booster — please, make an appointment today. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 20 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include 18 people who have died over the past 5 days and an additional 2 people who have died since 24 April. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 821 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 3 people were from Auckland; 1 from Waikato; 5 from Bay of Plenty; 2  from Hawke’s Bay; 1 from the Greater Wellington region; 1 from Nelson-Marlborough, 5 from Canterbury and 2 from Southern. One person was under 10; 1 in their 50s, 5 in their 60s; 2 in their 70s; 7 in their 80s and 4 were aged over 90. Of these people, 12 were female and 8 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
7,347 new community cases 79 new cases identified at the border 363 cases in hospital 3,704 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours 14,432 total RATs in the last 24 hours 1,123 booster doses administered yesterday --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 7,347 community cases, 363 hospitalisations and 24 deaths. Today’s 7-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,555 – last Friday it was 7,540. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 24 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today include 12 people who have died over the past 3 days and an additional 12 people who have died since 6 April. Delays to reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 845 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 15. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 1 person was from Northland, 8 from Auckland; 4 from Waikato; 1 from Bay of Plenty; 1 from Lakes DHB area; 1 from Taranaki; 1 from MidCentral; 2 from the Greater Wellington region; 2 from Canterbury and 3 from Southern. Two people were in their 40s; 1 in their 50s, 1 in their 60s; 7 in their 70s; 8 in their 80s and 5 were aged over 90. Of these people, 13 were female and 11 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
An updated pass can be downloaded from 24 May for people 12 and over. People are encouraged to stay up to date with COVID-19 vaccinations. Boosters are included in the up-to-date My Vaccine Pass for those 18 and over. New Zealanders who are up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccinations will be able to download an updated My Vaccine Pass from 24 May. Since the introduction of My Vaccine Pass last year, the COVID-19 vaccination landscape has changed. While My Vaccine Pass is not legally required, people are encouraged to have their pass for when it might be needed. Updated My Vaccine Passes will be available for anyone aged 12 and over who is up to date with their vaccinations for their age group and for the type of vaccine they have received. This includes boosters for those over 18. In April 2022 the legal requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Passes was removed. Some businesses may voluntarily keep My Vaccine Pass requirements as a condition of entry. For this reason, it is a good idea to have an up-to-date My Vaccine Pass handy in case you are asked for it. Everyone should stay up-to-date with their vaccinations and download their updated pass as it is an important record of their vaccination status. We have learnt over the last couple of years there are no certainties with COVID-19 and with new variants circling the globe, it is best we are prepared for every eventuality. An updated My Vaccine Passes will have an expiry date 6 months from the date of issue. The pass can be requested at any time provided people continue to be up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccinations. The updated My Vaccine Pass will have a slightly different look to the current version and a refreshed design, but it will still have a QR code. Anyone aged 12 and over can get a My Vaccine Pass if they have had their recommended COVID-19 vaccinations. Find more information about the updated My Vaccine Pass: Proof of your vaccination status
Displaying 11-20 of 960 updates 05 May 2022 From today, tamariki aged 5 to 11 who are severely immunocompromised can receive a third primary dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. 04 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 May 2022 The Government is broadening the ability for residence class visa holders to re-enter New Zealand. 02 May 2022 From 11:59pm 2 May, people currently permitted to arrive via the maritime border do not need to quarantine or isolate for 7 days. 02 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 May 2022 The Government is partnering with Air New Zealand to trial an innovative new COVID-19 testing solution that uses Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification (LAMP). 29 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Apr 2022 New Zealanders who contract COVID-19 now have access to 6 medicines proven to safely prevent the most severe and life-threatening symptoms of the virus. 28 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 21-30 of 960 updates 27 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 27 Apr 2022 People who have genuine reasons for not being able to wear a face mask can access a new personalised exemption card from the end of May. 26 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 22 Apr 2022 Post Vaccine Symptom Check survey results show that most tamariki aged 5 to 11 did not experience a reaction after getting the child Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. 22 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 21 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 20 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 20 Apr 2022 The Board has published an interim report about its findings on the safety data for the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. 19 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 14 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 31-40 of 960 updates 13 Apr 2022 Watch today's decision on our traffic light settings at 1pm. 13 Apr 2022 Kiwis can enjoy the long weekend with greater freedoms across the country from 11:59pm on Wednesday as New Zealand moves to Orange. 12 Apr 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 11 Apr 2022 The COVID-19 Vaccine Independent Safety Monitoring Board has notified the Ministry of Health of a third death in New Zealand linked to the Pfizer vaccine. 11 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 08 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 07 Apr 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 06 Apr 2022 From tomorrow, young people aged 16 and 17 can receive a free booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine at least six months after completing their primary course. 06 Apr 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 05 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 41-50 of 960 updates 04 Apr 2022 NZ is seeing a drop in cases, but as Omicron takes hold in our regions, public health advice tells us now is not the time for the country to move to Orange. 04 Apr 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 4pm. 04 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 01 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 01 Apr 2022 New Zealand will donate further Pfizer vaccines to Fiji to support paediatric vaccinations. 31 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 31 Mar 2022 New Zealand is boosting its comprehensive suite of medicines to treat COVID-19. 30 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 29 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 28 Mar 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 51-60 of 960 updates 25 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 24 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 23 Mar 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 23 Mar 2022 New Zealand’s successful management of the Omicron outbreak and high rates of vaccination mean it is now safe to ease restrictions. 23 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 11am. 22 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 21 Mar 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 18 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 17 Mar 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 16 Mar 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 911-920 of 960 updates 27 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 27 Aug 2020 The Government has set aside extra funding so we can access a COVID-19 vaccine once it becomes available. 26 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 25 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 24 Aug 2020 Auckland will stay at Alert Level 3 until 11:59pm on 30 August 2020. The rest of the country will remain at Alert Level 2. 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 921-930 of 960 updates 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020
Displaying 931-940 of 960 updates 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020. 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility.
Displaying 941-950 of 960 updates 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected. 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place.
Displaying 951-960 of 960 updates 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm. 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Home News and data Media conferences Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. --- Section Separator --- There are no 1pm media conferences this week. We will update this page if the schedule changes. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 media conference — 13 May 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 11 May 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 13 April 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 12 April 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 7 April 2022 --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Winter is just around the corner and with it, a risk of catching COVID-19 again. See the latest guidance. Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm.
Home Prepare and stay safe Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. What you need to know When to wear a mask Check your symptoms COVID-19 variants Mental health support Contact tracing Report false information --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. Advice for people who are at higher risk of more severe illness if they get COVID-19. We all need to be prepared to self-isolate if we get COVID-19, or are a Household Contact. This checklist can help you and your whānau make a plan. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants, symptoms and who is at higher risk of severe illness. Advice for people who are at higher risk of more severe illness if they get COVID-19. We all need to be prepared to self-isolate if we get COVID-19, or are a Household Contact. This checklist can help you and your whānau make a plan. --- Section Separator --- Learn how you can help slow the spread of COVID-19 by keeping up healthy habits, like wearing a mask and staying home when sick. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency and you need urgent help, call 111 immediately even if you and your household are isolating. --- Section Separator --- Learn how you can help slow the spread of COVID-19 by keeping up healthy habits, like wearing a mask and staying home when sick. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency and you need urgent help, call 111 immediately even if you and your household are isolating. --- Section Separator --- This section contains information for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. --- Section Separator --- Find the latest information and advice for whānau, hapū, and iwi Māori. --- Section Separator --- Find the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities, including translations. --- Section Separator --- Misinformation about COVID-19 works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus. --- Section Separator --- A lot of stuff changed when COVID-19 turned up in Aotearoa New Zealand. Find out what it means for you and the things that are important in your life.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. How to self-isolate COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely after 2 to 6 weeks, and make a full recovery within 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest tightness chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Post COVID-19 condition | who.int (external link) Long COVID | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. How to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely after 2 to 6 weeks, and make a full recovery within 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough low mood headaches difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' chest tightness chest pain joint pain muscle aches and pains muscle weakness ongoing changes to smell or taste fast-beating or a 'pounding' heart sleep disturbances. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Post COVID-19 condition | who.int (external link) Long COVID | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Our response to Omicron
This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. Popular topics What happens if you get COVID-19 Get a COVID-19 test Get RATs delivered If you cannot wear a face mask If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 About the traffic light system Get a booster Translations --- Section Separator --- For testing or vaccination advice, call the Disability Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 . If you are self-isolating and need food or other essential items, call the COVID-19 welfare phone line on 0800 512 337 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- You may need a test if: you have symptoms of COVID-19 you live with someone who has COVID-19 you are travelling you job needs you to take tests. You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. You can order RATs online or over the phone to use at home. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. You will need access to a mobile phone to order online. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. Order RATs online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Order over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. Find your nearest testing centre: COVID-19 testing sites | Healthpoint (external link) Talk to your doctor or residential care provider. You can also get advice from the Disability Healthline. Call 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 . If you have mobility or other accessibility challenges and are unable to leave your home to get to a collection site, you can arrange to have a RAT kit delivered to you. Free call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . If you have done the test yourself, or a support person has done it for you, record the result online or over the phone. Online: My Covid Record (external link) Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with the latest, trusted information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so that you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) You will need to self-isolate for 7 days. This means you must stay at home and also try to avoid contact with people you live with. The people you live with will also need to self-isolate. Start counting from Day 0, which is the first day you had symptoms or when you got your positive test result (whichever came first). Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 7 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. Advice for carers on supporting someone who has COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. --- Section Separator --- A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. You can get a booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course you are aged 16 or 17 and it has been 6 months since you completed your primary course. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. Find out more about vaccination for people who are severely immunocompromised (external link) To book your vaccination or get advice: call the Disability Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 text free to 8988 email accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz --- Section Separator --- Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. --- Section Separator --- Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. --- Section Separator --- Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Financial support Support is available if you need it when self-isolating because of COVID-19. Help when you are self-isolating If you test positive, let your support provider know that you have COVID-19 so they can put protective measures in place. Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow appropriate infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) Call the Ministry of Social Development's free COVID-19 Welfare line on 0800 512 337 . They can help you with: food and essential items mobile data so you can keep in contact with friends and whānau support for personal care or daily tasks talking to your employer if you are worried about your leave or pay mental health support support with family or sexual violence. Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others from COVID-19. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. For some people, an impairment, disability, or physical or mental health condition can mean wearing a mask is not possible. If you have a legitimate reason that means wearing a face mask is not suitable, you can apply for an exemption card (called a Communication Card) through the Ministry of Health website. You can also request a card by calling 0800 28 29 26 and selecting option 2, or by texting 8988. Request a mask exemption card | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- We are protecting Aoteroa New Zealand from COVID-19 using a system called the 'traffic lights'. Its official name is the COVID-19 Protection Framework. My Vaccine Passes are no longer required. Some businesses may choose to keep using them. You do not need to scan in when visiting a business or venue. There is a 200-person limit for indoor gatherings and events. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori --- Section Separator --- The best way to protect you, your whānau and your community from COVID-19 is to get vaccinated. Karawhiua provides trusted and up-to-date information on the vaccine for whānau and Māori communities. Be a doer! Karawhiua (external link) --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- At Red, there are restrictions on indoor gatherings at marae to help limit the spread of COVID-19, and protect the safety and wellbeing of whānau, hapū, and iwi . It is up to the leaders of the marae to decide whether to allow gatherings and whether gatherings are held inside or outside. Advice for marae at Red At Orange, g atherings at marae can go ahead. There are no restrictions on indoor or outdoor gatherings. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. Gatherings at Orange He kupu āwhina i ngā marae | COVID-19 guidance for marae [PDF, 4.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a Health professional. The following helplines are available for people needing help. Check out free services and resources Funding and support is available. Find more information from Te Puni Kōkiri. Funding and support | tpk.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Ruthie was 7 months hapū, with her baby Hope, when she contracted COVID-19 last year at a tangihanga. She shares her experience of being the first hapū māmā with COVID-19 in Aotearoa and her thoughts on the vaccine. Ruthie’s story is part of the Te Puni Kōkiri-led Karawhiua campaign which encourages whānau, hapū, iwi and Māori communities to make an informed choice about getting vaccinated against COVID-19. Watch Ruthie’s full story at Karawhiua (external link)
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits COVID-19 is in the community. To slow the spread and continue to protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. --- Section Separator --- Face masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. They are useful in poorly ventilated indoor areas and when you are around people you do not know. They stop particles spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This is particularly useful when someone has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. You must wear a face mask in some locations. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- JP's story: Protecting his Grandma Tina's story: Keeping herself safe Kali's story: Protecting her tamariki Dallas' story: Protecting his whānau Kim's story: Keeping herself safe Elaine's story: Protecting her father Kiahan's story: Protecting his Nan Chelsea's story: Protecting her son --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you should get a test. You must stay home until you get a negative result. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. By getting a test, you are helping to keep your community safe. Testing is always free for everyone. COVID-19 symptoms How to get a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. You should wash your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth, if your hands are not clean. Using hand sanitiser is also effective at killing germs and viruses. It destroys the protective bubble of the virus, but only if the sanitiser has at least 60% alcohol. Sanitiser is also effective in reducing the number and type of germs on your hands. --- Section Separator --- Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash your hands thoroughly. This will catch the droplets and keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. --- Section Separator --- Clean surfaces regularly. This includes frequently touched items like door handles, light switches and phones. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- The risk of becoming infected with COVID-19 increases the closer you are to a person and the longer you are close to that person. The risk is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. The risk is lower outside when there are fewer people, and when you are further away from others. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. If air conditioning is used, make sure the system is regularly maintained. Find out more about reducing the risk of COVID-19 through ventilation | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are not required to maintain physical distance from others in the traffic light system. But it is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it is in the community. --- Section Separator --- As Omicron is now widespread, we no longer need to contact trace individual cases. This means you do not need to keep a record of where you have been for contact tracing purposes. In case you do test positive for COVID-19, it is still a good idea to: keep track of people you have been with record any high-risk locations you have visited, for example hospitals or aged care facilities keep Bluetooth tracing turned on. We encourage you to not remove the NZ COVID Tracer app from your phone just yet. Bluetooth tracing is still being used to notify people if they have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) The contact tracing system may need to return if another variant of concern arrives in New Zealand. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can get a booster if it has been at least 3 months since your second dose. Vaccination remains one of the best tools in the fight against COVID-19. Even if you have had COVID-19, getting a booster once enough time has passed gives you another a layer of protection from the virus. Being up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccinations also helps protect people who are more at risk of becoming seriously ill from the virus and people who cannot be vaccinated such as babies and children under 5 years old. COVID-19 vaccines
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. --- Section Separator --- As a general rule, you should wear a face mask whenever you are indoors. The exceptions are at your home or your place of work if it is not public facing. Your employer may encourage you to wear a face mask even if your job is not public facing. When it is hard to physically distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face mask. Everyone must wear a mask that is attached to the face by loops around the ears or head. This means people can no longer use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts as face coverings. Types of face masks You do not need to wear a mask when exercising. Some people are unable to wear face masks for a wide range or reasons, many of which are not visible. Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport, this includes Cook Strait Ferries but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services at indoor arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport if you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above on public transport and Ministry of Education funded school transport in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public venues or facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic in an indoor setting at schools, for example classrooms and assemblies. This includes visitors, workers, and students and teachers in Years 4 to 13 inside at tertiary education facilities when visiting a licensed early childhood service at food and drink businesses, for example cafes, bars and restaurants — if you are seated indoors. You can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink at close-proximity businesses, for example hairdressers, barbers, beauty salons at an indoor event at an indoor gathering, except when you have exclusive use of the venue or defined space when visiting the indoor area of a court or tribunal — unless the judicial officer does not require them at premises operated by local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a health care service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility. Face masks at work --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport, this includes Cook Strait Ferries but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services or when you are on a ship that does not have an enclosed space for passengers at indoor arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport if you are aged 12 years or over on Ministry of Education funded school transport and public transport in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic visiting the indoor area of a court or tribunal — unless the judicial officer does not require them at premises operated by local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a healthcare service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility. Face masks at work --- Section Separator --- You are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings. --- Section Separator --- Some people must wear a face mask when they are working with members of the public, customers or clients while they are at work — unless they are exempt. You must wear a face mask if you work at a gathering — it does not need to be a medical grade one. The places where you must wear a medical grade face mask if you are working include: in a food and drink business or service in a close-proximity business, for example if you are a hairdresser in a gym or indoor recreation facility at an event as a teacher of students in years 4 to 13. You must wear a face mask if you work at a gathering — it does not need to be a medical grade one. The places where you must wear a medical grade face mask if you are working include: in a food and drink business or service in a close-proximity business, for example if you are a hairdresser at an event. You do not need to wear face masks at work at Green. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You do not need to wear a face mask in non-public facing workplaces. However, employers can apply their own policies for mask use. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has advice about the requirements for face masks in different sectors. Face mask requirement for workers and customers | business.govt.nz (external link) The Ministry of Health has information about the use of personal protective equipment (PPE) in a health and disability care setting. PPE in health and disability care settings | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face mask. There are also some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. Find a list of exemptions — where a face mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. Who does not need to wear a face mask
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- People who have genuine reasons for not being able to wear a face mask will be able to access a new personalised exemption card from the end of May. Learn more about the new face mask exemption card There are some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. In general, you should wear a face mask whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by particles, so masks are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. by children under 12 — except at Red for those aged 8 years or over or in Year 4 or above when indoors at school and on public and school transport at an indoor gathering if there is exclusive use of the venue or defined space, for example weddings or funerals on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry. you are outdoors you are exercising it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face mask unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind or has a disability which makes it hard to have effective communication you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. We know face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. You still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can request a Communication Card from the Ministry of Health. You can show the card to transport operators, retailers and service providers. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Communication Card if you cannot wear a face mask — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Request a Communication Card (external link) Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face mask. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, make sure you keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- People who have genuine reasons for not being able to wear a face mask will be able to access a new personalised exemption card from the end of May. Learn more about the new face mask exemption card --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. In general, you should wear a face mask whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by particles, so masks are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. by children under 12 — except at Red for those aged 8 years or over or in Year 4 or above when indoors at school and on public and school transport at an indoor gathering if there is exclusive use of the venue or defined space, for example weddings or funerals on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry. you are outdoors you are exercising it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face mask unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind or has a disability which makes it hard to have effective communication you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. --- Section Separator --- We know face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. You still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can request a Communication Card from the Ministry of Health. You can show the card to transport operators, retailers and service providers. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Communication Card if you cannot wear a face mask — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Request a Communication Card (external link) --- Section Separator --- Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face mask. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, make sure you keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks Keep track of where you have been
Home Prepare and stay safe Looking after your mental wellbeing --- Section Separator --- Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Support to get through COVID-19 | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) The All Right? website shares practical tips for looking after yourself and your whānau. Getting through together | allright.org.nz (external link) You can also find a list of tools and information on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Mental health and wellbeing resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | dia.govt.nz (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Everyone's emotional and mental wellbeing is important. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. However, there are lots of things you can do to feel better. The Mental Health Foundation has information about how to get through COVID-19. It includes wellbeing tips, helpful resources, and self-help tools and apps. Support to get through COVID-19 | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) The All Right? website shares practical tips for looking after yourself and your whānau. Getting through together | allright.org.nz (external link) You can also find a list of tools and information on the Ministry of Health website. COVID-19: Mental health and wellbeing resources | health.govt.nz (external link) Developed by Dr Mason Durie, Te Whare Tapa Whā speaks to the 4 cornerstones of Māori health and wellbeing. When there is an imbalance or 1 of the cornerstones is missing, we may feel unwell or out of sorts. We can use this model to help look after ourselves and those in our whānau. This model reminds us to take care of all aspects of our lives to support our wellbeing. The 4 cornerstones are: taha tinana | physical wellbeing taha hinengaro | mental wellbeing taha wairua | spiritual wellbeing taha whānau | family wellbeing. Te Whare Tapa Whā | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Do not be afraid to seek support. There are helpline services available right now that offer support, information and help for you, your family, whānau and friends. For support with anxiety, distress or mental wellbeing, you can call or text 1737 to talk with a trained counsellor for free, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Mental Health Foundation has a full list of services available. Helplines | mentalhealth.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are a number of things we can all do to boost our mental wellbeing and that of our loved ones. This is important for our wellbeing and helps to make us feel safer, less stressed and less anxious. We can support each other through the recovery, by keeping the connections and close ties to others that we forged during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is completely normal to feel overwhelmed, stressed, anxious, worried or scared. Allow yourself time to notice and express what you are feeling. This could be by writing thoughts and feelings down in a journal, talking to others, doing something creative or practising meditation. Talk with people you trust about your concerns and how you are feeling. Reach out to others. Try to go to sleep and wake up at the same time, eat at regular times, shower, change your clothes, see others regularly, either virtually or in person, and do your chores. Meditating and exercising can help you to relax and have a positive impact on your thoughts. Try not to increase unhealthy habits like comfort eating, drinking, smoking or vaping. Reaching out to those who may be feeling stressed or concerned can benefit both you and the person receiving support. You may find it useful to limit your time online. Check media and social media at specific times once or twice a day. --- Section Separator --- During the COVID-19 pandemic many people are spending more time online. While the internet helps you connect with family members, friends and colleagues, there are also risks. Knowing how to stay safe online can help protect you and your whānau. Netsafe has more information and resources on staying safe online, including reporting any online incidents. Staying safe | netsafe.org.nz (external link) It is illegal for anyone to send or publish threatening, offensive or sensitive material and damaging rumours. You can report these to Netsafe and get free expert advice. Report online harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) If you find any illegal material online, you can report objectionable material to the Department of Internal Affairs. Report objectionable material | dia.govt.nz (external link) If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police or call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- During Phase 3 of our Omicron response, Household Contacts must self-isolate and get tested. If you live with someone who has COVID-19, you can find guidance and advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Our response to Omicron — Phase 3 You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. A Household Contact is considered to be someone who: shares a house or flat on a permanent or part-time basis (for example, shared custody) with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19, and has spent at least 1 night or day in that residence while the case was infectious. These people are not considered Household Contacts, but may be Close Contacts: People who live in the same group accommodation as the person with COVID-19 (for example, in aged residential care facilities, halls of residences, boarding houses, hostels, backpackers, and transitional housing). Partners who do not live with the person who has COVID-19 but may have spent a night together. Advice for Close Contacts Whether you are fully vaccinated or not, you will need to: isolate from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive or their symptoms started — whichever came first get a test for COVID-19 on Day 3 , and on Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, you need to follow the guidance for people who have COVID-19. If you develop symptoms but test negative, do another rapid antigen test (RAT) 48 hours later. While you are isolating, try to avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. How to self-isolate How to get a COVID-19 test If someone else in your household tests positive, you do not need to restart your isolation period. You can complete your isolation at the same time as the first person in your household who had COVID-19 if: your Day 7 test was negative you have no new or worsening symptoms. For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact of someone with COVID-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. If you develop new cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms within 90 days of your original infection, take a RAT instead of a PCR. Some people who are Household Contacts and critical workers may be able to still go to work through the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. When you are not at work, you must follow the self-isolation guidance. Critical workers need to be fully vaccinated, have no symptoms and have a negative RAT before going to work. Your employer will let you know if the scheme applies to you. Critical workers There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Find out what financial support is available What type of contact are you? --- Section Separator --- During Phase 3 of our Omicron response, Household Contacts must self-isolate and get tested. If you live with someone who has COVID-19, you can find guidance and advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Our response to Omicron — Phase 3 --- Section Separator --- You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. A Household Contact is considered to be someone who: shares a house or flat on a permanent or part-time basis (for example, shared custody) with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19, and has spent at least 1 night or day in that residence while the case was infectious. These people are not considered Household Contacts, but may be Close Contacts: People who live in the same group accommodation as the person with COVID-19 (for example, in aged residential care facilities, halls of residences, boarding houses, hostels, backpackers, and transitional housing). Partners who do not live with the person who has COVID-19 but may have spent a night together. Advice for Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- Whether you are fully vaccinated or not, you will need to: isolate from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive or their symptoms started — whichever came first get a test for COVID-19 on Day 3 , and on Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, you need to follow the guidance for people who have COVID-19. If you develop symptoms but test negative, do another rapid antigen test (RAT) 48 hours later. While you are isolating, try to avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. How to self-isolate How to get a COVID-19 test If someone else in your household tests positive, you do not need to restart your isolation period. You can complete your isolation at the same time as the first person in your household who had COVID-19 if: your Day 7 test was negative you have no new or worsening symptoms. For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact of someone with COVID-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. If you develop new cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms within 90 days of your original infection, take a RAT instead of a PCR. --- Section Separator --- Some people who are Household Contacts and critical workers may be able to still go to work through the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. When you are not at work, you must follow the self-isolation guidance. Critical workers need to be fully vaccinated, have no symptoms and have a negative RAT before going to work. Your employer will let you know if the scheme applies to you. Critical workers --- Section Separator --- There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Find out what financial support is available --- Section Separator --- What type of contact are you? --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works What type of contact are you? Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers Household members
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. What type of contact are you? If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have details of your Household Contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited any welfare needs you may have. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. How to upload your digital diary | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728. It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your approximate arrival and departure time. If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. More information about NZ COVID Tracer alerts | health.govt.nz (external link) You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. What type of contact are you? --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have details of your Household Contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited any welfare needs you may have. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. How to upload your digital diary | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728. It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your approximate arrival and departure time. --- Section Separator --- If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. More information about NZ COVID Tracer alerts | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works What type of contact are you? Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers Household members
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Getting tested for COVID-19 is free. Find information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- Find out when you can get a free RAT or PCR test, what you need to do, and how to report your RAT results. You should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT) if you test positive or negative. You can do this online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. What to do if you have tested positive for COVID-19 or are a probable case. There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs), so follow the instructions provided in your kit, but they all follow the same basic method. This whole process should take no longer than 30 minutes. --- Section Separator --- Find out when you can get a free RAT or PCR test, what you need to do, and how to report your RAT results. You should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT) if you test positive or negative. You can do this online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. What to do if you have tested positive for COVID-19 or are a probable case. There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs), so follow the instructions provided in your kit, but they all follow the same basic method. This whole process should take no longer than 30 minutes.
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing How to get a COVID-19 test When you should get a test, what you need to do, and how to report your RAT results. What you need to know When you need a test Where to get a test How to use a RAT Report your RAT results If you test positive Getting your PCR test results Information in other languages and alternate formats --- Section Separator --- A COVID-19 test is free if it is part of the public health response. This includes if you: have symptoms are a Household Contact are a critical worker and need a test to go to work are part of the healthcare and emergency service workforce require a test for domestic travel or to attend court do a job where mandatory testing applies have been told to get one by a health professional. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test. If you are unsure, talk to your local healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Check the list of COVID-19 symptoms If you live with a person who has COVID-19, you need to get a test on their Day 3 and Day 7 of self-isolation. Advice for Household Contacts If you are a Close Contact, you do not need to get a test unless you develop symptoms. Advice for Close Contacts People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 can get a free test from their doctor or community health provider. They will decide which type of test is best for you. If you want to get a test for another reason — for example, because you are visiting friends or whānau — you can now buy a RAT at some retail outlets. --- Section Separator --- There are 2 types of COVID-19 tests available to the general public in New Zealand. Rapid antigen tests (RATs) are the main testing method being used now for people with COVID-19 symptoms or who are a Household Contact. Results take about 20 minutes. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests are still being used in some situations. Results take between 2 and 5 days. A health professional can advise you on the right test to take in your situation. COVID-19 test results and their accuracy | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are allowed to leave your home to get a COVID-19 test while you are self-isolating. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Requesting RATs to use at home is an easy step-by-step process. RATs can be requested on behalf of someone else. You will need access to a mobile phone to validate your order. Online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Over the phone: 0800 222 478 , choose option 3 (8am-8pm, 7 days a week) You will be issued an order number. You can then collect your RAT order from a collection site listed on Healthpoint, or have someone collect it for you. Your doctor may offer COVID-19 tests. Call them to find out and follow their advice. --- Section Separator --- Test instructions vary depending on the brand. Many rapid antigen testing kits follow the instructions below, but not all. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions. All RAT kits should be kept out of reach of young children and stored safely according to the manufacturer’s instructions. How to use a RAT How to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) [PDF, 730 KB] Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you get a positive test result, you must self-isolate immediately and follow the advice for people who have COVID-19. Your test result does not need to be confirmed with a PCR unless advised. What steps to take if you have tested positive If you get a negative test result and do not have symptoms, it is likely you do not have COVID-19. If you have symptoms, stay at home and carry out another RAT 48 hours later. If your symptoms get worse, contact your local healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . It is possible for someone with COVID-19 to get a negative RAT result. This can be because there was not enough virus in the sample, or because the test was not carried out correctly. If a result is failed or indeterminate, you must take another RAT. Follow the manufacturer's instructions on how long to wait between tests. --- Section Separator --- Whether positive or negative, you should report the results of your RAT. You can do this online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. Log in and report your results through My Covid Record (external link) If you are having trouble using My Covid Record, call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3. How to report your RAT result --- Section Separator --- After your test, you must self-isolate until you receive a negative result. You will get your results in a text message from 2328 . It will take between 2 and 5 days. If you test positive, the text message will provide information about self-isolation, support options and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. What steps to take if you have tested positive
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing How to use a RAT --- Section Separator --- Get ready by blowing your nose and then washing and drying your hands. Lay out the contents of your RAT kit — a tube of solution, a stopper, a swab, and the test cassette. Remove the swab (it looks like a long cotton ear bud). Take the soft end and gently glide swab in 1 nostril, going low and slow, about 2 centimetres deep. Twirl the swab over the surface of the nostril around 5 times. Then repeat in your other nostril, going round again slowly 5 times. Get the tube with solution, open it, keep it upright and make sure not to spill it. Place the soft end of the swab into the solution and swirl about 5 times. You want to make sure that the swab is soaked. Then pinch the swab as you are removing it – squeeze as much liquid out as you can, to keep it in the tube. Place the stopper firmly on the tube. Give the tube a shake or flick a couple of times so it gets a good mix. Then leave upright for about a minute. With the test cassette ready on a flat surface, take your tube (with the solution of your sample), and turn it upside down. Follow the kit instructions as to how many drops are needed for your test. Squeeze the drops through the stopper onto the well. Wait for 15 minutes — set a timer if that helps. Again, check with the kit instructions as the waiting time may differ. Check for results. If there is no line at the C (C for control), or there are 3 lines, then the test did not work properly this time (it is invalid — this sometimes happens). You will need to do another test. If you see a single line at the C, this shows that the test has worked and you are negative for COVID-19. If you see 2 lines (even if it is a faint line at the T) then this shows you have tested positive for COVID-19. You and your household will need to isolate for at least 7 days. Please report your results (positive or negative): online at MyCovidRecord.health.nz (external link) by calling 0800 222 478 (and choose option 3). This will allow you to be provided with any support required while isolating. How to report your RAT result --- Section Separator --- Get ready by blowing your nose and then washing and drying your hands. Lay out the contents of your RAT kit — a tube of solution, a stopper, a swab, and the test cassette. Remove the swab (it looks like a long cotton ear bud). --- Section Separator --- Take the soft end and gently glide swab in 1 nostril, going low and slow, about 2 centimetres deep. Twirl the swab over the surface of the nostril around 5 times. Then repeat in your other nostril, going round again slowly 5 times. --- Section Separator --- Get the tube with solution, open it, keep it upright and make sure not to spill it. Place the soft end of the swab into the solution and swirl about 5 times. You want to make sure that the swab is soaked. --- Section Separator --- Then pinch the swab as you are removing it – squeeze as much liquid out as you can, to keep it in the tube. Place the stopper firmly on the tube. --- Section Separator --- Give the tube a shake or flick a couple of times so it gets a good mix. Then leave upright for about a minute. --- Section Separator --- With the test cassette ready on a flat surface, take your tube (with the solution of your sample), and turn it upside down. Follow the kit instructions as to how many drops are needed for your test. Squeeze the drops through the stopper onto the well. --- Section Separator --- Wait for 15 minutes — set a timer if that helps. Again, check with the kit instructions as the waiting time may differ. --- Section Separator --- Check for results. If there is no line at the C (C for control), or there are 3 lines, then the test did not work properly this time (it is invalid — this sometimes happens). You will need to do another test. If you see a single line at the C, this shows that the test has worked and you are negative for COVID-19. If you see 2 lines (even if it is a faint line at the T) then this shows you have tested positive for COVID-19. You and your household will need to isolate for at least 7 days. --- Section Separator --- Please report your results (positive or negative): online at MyCovidRecord.health.nz (external link) by calling 0800 222 478 (and choose option 3). This will allow you to be provided with any support required while isolating. How to report your RAT result --- Section Separator --- How to get a COVID-19 test Report your RAT results What happens if you test positive for COVID-19 How to use a RAT
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Report your RAT results --- Section Separator --- Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. Sign up for My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) 1. Log in to My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) 2. Under 'Report a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) result', tap or click 'Report a test result'. 3. Read the information provided. Tap or click 'Continue'. 4. Tap or click 'Myself', enter your mobile number and tick the box if you consent to receiving COVID-19 information. Tap or click 'Continue'. 5. Indicate which lines are visible on your test by selecting 'Yes' or 'No'. 6. Tap or click 'Enter result'. Advice about what to do next will appear. If you have entered the wrong result by mistake, you will have 20 minutes to remove it. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, or need help with My Covid Record, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You can now report a RAT result for someone else through your own My Covid Record account. You will need their: full name date of birth NHI number. You can report a RAT result over the phone if you are having trouble using My Covid Record, or want to report someone else's RAT result and do not have their NHI. Call: 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 Testing and reporting requirements for international travellers --- Section Separator --- Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. Sign up for My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) 1. Log in to My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) 2. Under 'Report a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) result', tap or click 'Report a test result'. 3. Read the information provided. Tap or click 'Continue'. 4. Tap or click 'Myself', enter your mobile number and tick the box if you consent to receiving COVID-19 information. Tap or click 'Continue'. 5. Indicate which lines are visible on your test by selecting 'Yes' or 'No'. 6. Tap or click 'Enter result'. Advice about what to do next will appear. If you have entered the wrong result by mistake, you will have 20 minutes to remove it. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, or need help with My Covid Record, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 --- Section Separator --- You can now report a RAT result for someone else through your own My Covid Record account. You will need their: full name date of birth NHI number. --- Section Separator --- You can report a RAT result over the phone if you are having trouble using My Covid Record, or want to report someone else's RAT result and do not have their NHI. Call: 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 --- Section Separator --- Testing and reporting requirements for international travellers --- Section Separator --- How to get a COVID-19 test Report your RAT results What happens if you test positive for COVID-19 How to use a RAT
Home Traffic lights The traffic lights (COVID-19 Protection Framework) protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19, while allowing people greater freedoms. What you need to know Hospitality at Orange Shopping at Orange Events and public facilities at Orange Gatherings at Orange Playing sport at Orange Businesses and workplaces at Orange Travel at Orange Education at Orange --- Section Separator --- Find out what you need to do: Life at Orange Face masks at Orange --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Traffic lights COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) The COVID-19 Protection Framework (also known as the traffic light system) sets out our plan to manage life with Omicron while reducing the impact of future outbreaks. --- Section Separator --- Find out what you need to do: Life at Orange Face masks at Orange --- Section Separator --- The framework will continue to protect New Zealanders, while also providing more certainty and new opportunities. It minimises the impact and provides protection from COVID-19 through 3 settings — Red, Orange and Green. Minimisation means we are aiming to keep the spread of COVID-19 and hospitilisations at as low a level as possible. Outbreaks will be contained and controlled, and if practical, stamped out. There will likely be some level of cases in the community on an ongoing basis. Protection means that we will protect people from the virus, with vaccination, infection prevention and control, and general public health measures (for example contact tracing, case management and testing). Response will also focus on minimising significant health impacts through treatment and support. We will also protect people’s health, by ensuring we are not letting cases go to the point where the impacts have flow-on effects to impact other health services. The framework is intended to give as much certainty and stability as possible for people and businesses, reducing the need for widespread lockdowns. --- Section Separator --- A high vaccination rate is a key tool in protecting people and minimising the spread of COVID-19. Getting vaccinated reduces the likeliness of getting really sick, going to hospital or passing COVID-19 on to others. There are places where vaccination for workers is required, for example within the border, prisons, and health and disability sectors. Specified limits are based on 1 metre distancing, which means 1 metre square of space for each person (the number of people is limited by the space available). It does not mean people must remain 1 metre apart from others. Capacity limits include everyone in a defined space, excluding workers (paid and unpaid). Under the framework localised lockdowns and protections can be used to control high rates of transmission. The restrictions implemented will consider specific circumstances and the nature of the public health response. They could include: stay at home orders closure of premises, for example schools and retail restrictions on gatherings restrictions on movement in and out of the lockdown area. If your business, service, or activity is not captured specifically in the Framework you must follow the public health measures specified in the general settings. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do. --- Section Separator --- At Red, we need to take action to protect our vulnerable communities and our health system from COVID-19. Learn what we all need to do. At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. At Green, there is limited community transmission, and our health system is ready to respond. Learn what we all need to do.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange At Orange, there will be community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. What to do at Orange: Gatherings Hospitality Businesses and workplaces Events Early learning and schools Shopping and services Travel and accommodation Sport and recreation --- Section Separator --- Read on to find out about life at Orange. --- Section Separator --- At Orange, you can continue to do everyday activities, but we need to protect our vulnerable communities. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You can visit cafes and bars, attend gatherings and events, and go to the hairdresser and gym. There are no capacity limits or distancing requirements at venues. Workplaces and schools can open. To protect yourself, your whānau and your community, keep up healthy habits. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits can go ahead, including visiting friends and whānau, weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Orange. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits can go ahead, including visiting friends and whānau, weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Orange. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Workplaces are open at Orange. Employees should talk to their employers about working at Orange. There is no requirement to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses will still be able to use the system if they would like to. Requiring My Vaccine Passes | business.govt.nz (external link) Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate need to be fully vaccinated. Vaccine information for businesses If you are a business owner or manager, think about what steps you can take to protect your staff and customers, if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan for your business. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you enter a business as a visitor or customer that has chosen to check My Vaccine Passes, you will need to show them your pass. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass by looking at it, or scanning the QR code on your My Vaccine Pass with the NZ Pass Verifier app. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask Some people must wear a face mask when they are working with members of the public, customers or clients while they are at work — unless they are exempt. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has advice about the requirements for face masks in different sectors: Face mask requirement for workers and customers | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. COVID-19 support for employers | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information. Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Education Early learning and schools Children can attend early learning services, playgroups and schools at Orange, and must follow some public health measures. --- Section Separator --- All playgroups, early learning centres, schools and kura can open and children do not need to be vaccinated to attend. Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. All parents/caregivers and other visitors are encouraged to wear a face mask indoors. All ākonga (students) aged 12 years or over must wear face masks on public and school transport. --- Section Separator --- Certified playgroups can open. All licensed early learning services can open with public health measures in place. Schools and kura can open with public health measures in place. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are encouraged, but not required, when inside at school. All ākonga aged 12 and up must wear face masks on school transport. All parents, caregivers, whānau, and other visitors are encouraged to wear face masks on site at education services. You do not need to wear a face mask when at special interest education, such as music lessons, art groups and girl guides. We encourage you to indoors wherever it is practical. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Children and parents/caregivers of a child or student cannot be prevented from going to school or early childhood services based on their vaccination status. This includes: licensed early childhood education services and registered primary and secondary schools, including private providers school hostels school transport services for all students out of school care and recreation (OSCAR) programmes secondary students who attend a tertiary education facility for their learning (except if they are participating in a workplace-based programme that has a vaccination policy). All children and young people can participate in all school-organised teams and groups, regardless of their vaccination status. --- Section Separator --- If there is a positive case of COVID-19 identified at an education service, they will work with the Ministry of Education and public health authorities to seek advice. Only people with COVID-19 and their Household Contacts need to self-isolate. If your child has been near someone with COVID-19 who is not in their household: they do not need to stay home from school or kura, and they do not need to get a test, unless they get symptoms. If your child or someone in their household gets COVID-19, you should tell their school or kura. Everyone in the household must self-isolate. What happens if you test positive Household Contacts How to self-isolate Check with your school or kura about how they will manage COVID-19 cases. A public health toolkit is available: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services and schools | temahau.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Anyone who is required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation, such as boarding schools, can open. Students are encouraged to wear face masks in communal areas, and keep 1 metre apart from people they do not know. Travel at Orange --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Early learning services, schools and kura can find more detailed information from the Ministry of Education at temahau.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework advice for early learning services and schools | temahau.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Education Tertiary education Students can attend tertiary education in person at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education facilities can open. Tertiary students can attend classes, lectures, labs, workshops, tutorials and meetings in person. My Vaccine Pass is not required, but tertiary providers may have their own requirements. Check with your provider. If you do not meet their vaccine requirements, talk to them about alternative learning options. --- Section Separator --- Anyone who is required to self-isolate should stay home. Do not go to any educational service. Schools and kura should provide distance learning options if a student needs to stay home. Isolation and care --- Section Separator --- Student accommodation can open. Check with your provider about their requirements. Students can travel back and forth between their home and their student accommodation. Travel at Orange --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccinations are free. If you need help with costs to get to a vaccination centre, talk to StudyLink about how they can help you. COVID-19 vaccination travel | studylink.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Tertiary education providers and students can find more information on education.govt.nz COVID-19 Protection Framework for tertiary and international sector | temahau.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Events and public facilities Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events can go ahead. Public facilities can open. There are no limits to how many people can attend an event or public facility. You must wear a face mask indoors at public facilities, except swimming pools. You do not need to wear a face mask at an event, either indoors or outdoors. --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Orange. Examples include: auctions cinemas concert venues conferences commercial recreational activities private galleries sporting events stadiums. You do not need to wear a face mask at an event, either indoors or outdoors. Workers and volunteers at indoor events must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor community gatherings that are open to the public and do not require tickets or registration must follow the rules for gatherings. Gatherings at Orange --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can open at Orange. Examples of public facilities include: libraries public galleries museums zoos swimming pools recreation centres. You must wear a face mask indoors at public facilities, except swimming pools. --- Section Separator --- There are no limits on the number of people who can attend an event or visit a public facility. This applies indoors and outdoors. --- Section Separator --- At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Public facilities can find more information at business.govt.nz. Public facilities guidance | business.govt.nz (external link) Local government can find more information at dia.govt.nz. COVID-19 Local Government Response Update | dia.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings Gatherings can go ahead, including weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. --- Section Separator --- There is no limit for indoor or outdoor gatherings. You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering, but it is encouraged. Workers and volunteers at gatherings must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. --- Section Separator --- All types of gatherings can go ahead, including: weddings and civil union ceremonies faith-based gatherings funerals and tangihanga club functions community fairs social sports. --- Section Separator --- There are no limits on the number of people who can attend an indoor or outdoor gathering. Events have different rules to gatherings. Events control access by using tickets, registration, a fee or another way of controlling entry. For example, a ticketed concert held at a place of worship is an event. Events at Orange --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering. People serving or handling food must wear face masks. If your gathering is at a hospitality venue — for example, at a restaurant — you need to follow the hospitality advice. If you have exclusive use of a hospitality venue, then you do not need to follow the hospitality advice. Hospitality at Orange --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask when attending a gathering, but it is encouraged. Workers and volunteers at gatherings must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. Performers and formal speakers do not need to wear a face mask when performing or speaking. They should wear face masks when not performing or speaking. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Gatherings at marae can go ahead. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. He kupu āwhina i ngā marae | COVID-19 guidance for marae [PDF, 4.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- All faith-based services can go ahead. For example, services at a place of worship, or a prayer group in an individual's home. Guidelines for places of worship [PDF, 246 KB] --- Section Separator --- Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Orange. Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737. It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face masks. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility, and all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: not kiss or touch the body wash your hands thoroughly after the viewing. Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz: COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Hospitality venues Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality venues can open. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass. You do not need to wear a face mask at indoor or outdoor hospitality venues. Public-facing workers at indoor hospitality venues must wear face masks. --- Section Separator --- Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. There are no limits on the number of people who can be at the venue — either indoors or outdoors. You do not have to be seated to be served. Food and drink services that only offer takeaway, like coffee carts and food trucks, should follow the rules for retail. Shopping and services at Orange --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask at indoor or outdoor hospitality venues. You are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. Public-facing workers at indoor hospitality venues must wear a medical grade face mask. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Moving, buying and selling your home You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can move house, and buy and sell property at Orange. There is no limit to how many people can attend open homes and property inspections. You do not need to wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- You can move house at Orange. You can use a moving company to relocate. You can travel between regions that are at different settings. Travel advice --- Section Separator --- You can buy or sell a property at Orange. You can hold and attend open homes. You can carry out property inspections. There is no limit to how many people can attend open homes and property inspections. You can travel between regions that are at different settings. Advice for landlords and tenants | tenancy.govt.nz (external link) Travel advice --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask when moving, buying or selling your home. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Real estate agencies and moving companies can find more detailed information, including advice for holding open homes and auctions. Services guidelines under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Guidelines for real estate activities during COVID-19 | rea.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Shopping and services You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. --- Section Separator --- You can always access these places at Orange: supermarkets dairies food banks pharmacies petrol stations essential health and disability services, including primary care services, specialist clinics, laboratories and imaging services, public and private hospitals, maternity care, hospice services, oral healthcare services, mental health care services, ambulances and emergency care aged residential care services if you are a resident public housing and social housing emergency accommodation for people in need. --- Section Separator --- Shops, including outdoor markets, banks and takeaway-only businesses, can open. Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter the shop. You must wear a face mask when you are visiting a shop indoors. --- Section Separator --- You can use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. Some transport providers may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. --- Section Separator --- You can visit a close-proximity business at Orange. There is no limit to how many people can be present. Examples are: barbers hairdressers beauty salons driving instructors massage therapists. --- Section Separator --- You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at any traffic light setting. Examples of trades and home services are: getting home appliances fixed, like your fridge utility services, like gas and power cleaning for people who need assistance because of sickness or disability gardening services getting internet or other services installed or fixed locksmiths vet and pest management services. While they are inside your house it is recommended you: keep 1 metre apart from them, and wear a face mask. Tradespeople do not need to wear a face mask when inside people’s homes. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retail advice under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Advice for health providers under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Sport and recreation You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Indoor and outdoor sport events can go ahead at Orange. This includes community and professional sport. Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities can open. This includes gyms, dance studios, ice skating rinks, playgrounds and outdoor exercise classes. There are no capacity limits indoors or outdoors. --- Section Separator --- If you are playing in or watching a controlled-access event, then you must follow the rules for events. They involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. Events at Orange --- Section Separator --- If you want to visit a public swimming pool, then you must follow the rules for public facilities. Public facilities at Orange --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors, at a sporting or recreation event, when you are exercising, or playing sport. When face masks do not need to be worn At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Sporting event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Sports clubs can find more detailed information on sportnz.org.nz: COVID-19 overview | sportnz.org.nz (external link) Recreation businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Entertainment, recreation and exercise guidance | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Travel and accommodation You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. This information is for domestic travel. --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at any traffic light setting. There are no boundaries under the traffic lights. You can travel for any reason. Accommodation can open. There are no capacity limits. Find information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand: International travel --- Section Separator --- You can travel anywhere in New Zealand at any traffic light setting. You can travel for any reason. Unless your transport provider requires it, you do not need a My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test to travel. If you are travelling into a different setting area, you will need to follow the guidance for that area when you are there. You do not need to physically distance. You must wear a face mask: on indoor public transport at indoor arrival and departure points, for example airports and some train stations in taxis in ride-share vehicles on domestic flights. When to wear a face mask at Orange If you are self-isolating, you can only leave your home for a few reasons. If you are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test, you should stay home. How to self-isolate What to do if you test positive for COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- Accommodation can open at Orange. There are no capacity limits. This includes: hotels and motels boarding houses backpackers campgrounds seasonal worker accommodation AirBnB properties tertiary accommodation. If you are holding an event or a gathering at an accommodation facility, follow the relevant advice: Events at Orange Gatherings at Orange If the accommodation service contains a hospitality venue, they need to follow advice for hospitality services. Hospitality at Orange You do not need to wear a face mask at accommodation facilities, but you are encouraged to wear one in public indoor settings. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Transport operators can find more information: Advice for transport operators about COVID-19 Protection Framework | transport.govt.nz (external link) Advice for transport, freight and logistics | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Accommodation providers can find more information on business.govt.nz. Accommodation guidance | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Visiting friends and whānau You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Orange. --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau at their homes, and invite them to yours, at every traffic light setting. Under the COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights), household bubbles do not exist. Examples include: catching up with friends and whānau at their home or your home parties and other gatherings at their home or your home. Follow the advice for gatherings. Gatherings at Orange --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in a rest home or aged care facility, but there may be restrictions. Some facilities may only allow fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the aged care or rest home before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting an aged care facility. Do not visit an aged care facility or rest home if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can visit friends and whānau in hospital or healthcare facilities. Each facility may have their own requirements to keep workers and patients safe. This could include restricting the number of daily visitors, or only allowing fully vaccinated people to visit. Check with the healthcare provider before you visit. You must wear a face mask when visiting hospital and other healthcare facilities. Do not visit a healthcare facility if you are unwell, have symptoms of COVID-19, are self-isolating or are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. Guidance for health professionals | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are currently no face-to-face visits allowed for private and legal visitors. When visits start again, all private visitors are required to be fully vaccinated. Visiting friends and whānau in prison | corrections.govt.nz (external link) (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. To slow the spread of the disease, we encourage those who can, to work from home. If you are a worker, talk to your employer or read more at employment.govt.nz Working at Red | employment.govt.nz (external link) (external link) How to run your business at Red | business.govt.nz (external link) Some critical workers may be able to return to work if they are a Household Contact, are fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. Find out more about the close contact exemption scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass requirements have been removed, but businesses can choose to continue to follow them. If you enter a business that is still following the requirements as a visitor or customer, you may be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass, either by looking at it, or scanning it with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Children under 12 years and 3 months can enter businesses without a My Vaccine Pass. Find out when you need your My Vaccine Pass Shops and close-proximity businesses at Red Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- Workplaces can open at Red. To slow the spread of the disease, we also encourage those who can, to work from home. Working from home is not practical for everyone, but if it is a practical option for you, we are encouraging you to do so. Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate must be vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- If you are a business owner or manager, you should have a plan in place to protect your workers and customers if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) During the Omicron response, workers who at registered critical services who are a Household Contact may continue to work. They must be fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. More information about critical workers --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport, this includes Cook Strait Ferries but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services at indoor arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport if you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above on public transport and Ministry of Education funded school transport in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public venues or facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic in an indoor setting at schools, for example classrooms and assemblies. This includes visitors, workers, and students and teachers in Years 4 to 13 inside at tertiary education facilities when visiting a licensed early childhood service at food and drink businesses, for example cafes, bars and restaurants — if you are seated indoors. You can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink at close-proximity businesses, for example hairdressers, barbers, beauty salons at an indoor event at an indoor gathering, except when you have exclusive use of the venue or defined space when visiting the indoor area of a court or tribunal — unless the judicial officer does not require them at premises operated by local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a health care service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility. Face masks at work --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. COVID-19 support for employers | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information. Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Defined spaces --- Section Separator --- Indoor spaces are generally considered to be venues that: are enclosed by a ceiling and walls, or other similar structures, and do not have much, if any, flow of fresh air. Examples include many gyms, nightclubs, restaurants and halls. Indoor space is a single defined space if: there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces, and the space does not share direct airflow with other indoor spaces. Indoor defined spaces can include temporary structures, like marquees, that are enclosed by temporary walls on multiple sides or plastic domes. Outdoor spaces are generally considered to be places that have good ventilation, with a decent amount of free flowing, fresh air coming into the space. For example, this could be because the venue: does not have a roof has fewer than 4 walls, or because its walls do not go all the way up and still allow a significant amount of air flow. An outdoor space is a single defined space if: there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces, or there is at least 2 metres separating everyone in the gathering space from people who are outside that space and who are not attending the gathering. Outdoor defined spaces can include: areas cordoned off with rope, fencing, barriers or bollards with clear entry and exit points. temporary structures, like marquees with sides rolled up and gazebos. Some venues are made up of indoor and outdoor spaces. The activity that occurs in these indoor spaces should determine what capacity limit applies to the indoor space — the rule follows the activity. This means that: retail capacity limits (capacity based on 1 metre distancing) generally apply to the indoor places in which people: travel directly through to get to an outdoor space, and/or need to go so they can purchase things (for example food, to eat when back outdoors), and/or need to go to use the bathroom. travel directly through to get to an outdoor space, and/or need to go so they can purchase things (for example food, to eat when back outdoors), and/or need to go to use the bathroom. indoor capacity limits (of up to 200 people based on 1 metre distancing) generally apply to indoor spaces if people are using the space for purposes other than those listed directly above. If there is more than 1 space on the premises, people using the space (other than workers), cannot mix with other people using, entering, or leaving the premises. Workers can move between gatherings held in different defined spaces. Every venue is different, so it is up to the venue owner or gathering organiser to put measures in place to stop groups of people mixing within each defined space. To ensure groups do not mix, consider: separate entry and exit points staggering start times for events or gatherings separate bathrooms different service counters for food and drinks, and areas where people go up to pay. Guidance on capacity limits in indoor and outdoor spaces [PDF, 84 KB] You do not need to wear a face mask at an indoor gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space. This means that the area can be closed off to the public and is used only by people attending your event or gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering. All workers must wear a face mask an indoor gatherings, unless they are exempt. Some venues and facilities may have capacity limits based on their defined space. Capacity limits are based on the number of people who could be in the defined space if everyone stands 1 metre apart, and are limited to a maximum of 200 people. Smaller spaces may need to have fewer than 200 people. When you are working out the maximum number of people allowed in each defined space, do not include workers. More information about gathering limits at Red: Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae --- Section Separator --- Indoor spaces are generally considered to be venues that: are enclosed by a ceiling and walls, or other similar structures, and do not have much, if any, flow of fresh air. Examples include many gyms, nightclubs, restaurants and halls. Indoor space is a single defined space if: there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces, and the space does not share direct airflow with other indoor spaces. Indoor defined spaces can include temporary structures, like marquees, that are enclosed by temporary walls on multiple sides or plastic domes. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor spaces are generally considered to be places that have good ventilation, with a decent amount of free flowing, fresh air coming into the space. For example, this could be because the venue: does not have a roof has fewer than 4 walls, or because its walls do not go all the way up and still allow a significant amount of air flow. An outdoor space is a single defined space if: there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces, or there is at least 2 metres separating everyone in the gathering space from people who are outside that space and who are not attending the gathering. Outdoor defined spaces can include: areas cordoned off with rope, fencing, barriers or bollards with clear entry and exit points. temporary structures, like marquees with sides rolled up and gazebos. --- Section Separator --- Some venues are made up of indoor and outdoor spaces. The activity that occurs in these indoor spaces should determine what capacity limit applies to the indoor space — the rule follows the activity. This means that: retail capacity limits (capacity based on 1 metre distancing) generally apply to the indoor places in which people: travel directly through to get to an outdoor space, and/or need to go so they can purchase things (for example food, to eat when back outdoors), and/or need to go to use the bathroom. travel directly through to get to an outdoor space, and/or need to go so they can purchase things (for example food, to eat when back outdoors), and/or need to go to use the bathroom. indoor capacity limits (of up to 200 people based on 1 metre distancing) generally apply to indoor spaces if people are using the space for purposes other than those listed directly above. If there is more than 1 space on the premises, people using the space (other than workers), cannot mix with other people using, entering, or leaving the premises. Workers can move between gatherings held in different defined spaces. Every venue is different, so it is up to the venue owner or gathering organiser to put measures in place to stop groups of people mixing within each defined space. To ensure groups do not mix, consider: separate entry and exit points staggering start times for events or gatherings separate bathrooms different service counters for food and drinks, and areas where people go up to pay. Guidance on capacity limits in indoor and outdoor spaces [PDF, 84 KB] --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask at an indoor gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space. This means that the area can be closed off to the public and is used only by people attending your event or gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering. All workers must wear a face mask an indoor gatherings, unless they are exempt. --- Section Separator --- Some venues and facilities may have capacity limits based on their defined space. Capacity limits are based on the number of people who could be in the defined space if everyone stands 1 metre apart, and are limited to a maximum of 200 people. Smaller spaces may need to have fewer than 200 people. When you are working out the maximum number of people allowed in each defined space, do not include workers. --- Section Separator --- More information about gathering limits at Red: Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae at Red — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Visiting friends and whānau Defined spaces Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae at Red — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Visiting friends and whānau Defined spaces Travel and accommodation Businesses and workplaces Hospitality venues Shopping and services Events and public facilities Education Moving, buying and selling your home Sport and recreation
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Access to basic needs Everyone is entitled to access basic needs such as food, healthcare, public transport and emergency shelter. --- Section Separator --- At every traffic light setting, you will be able to access basic needs such as food, healthcare and education. You will not be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass. You do not need a My Vaccine Pass to use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. You must wear a face mask when accessing services for basic needs. --- Section Separator --- You can access these places and services: supermarkets dairies food banks pharmacies petrol stations essential health and disability services, including primary care services, specialist clinics, laboratories and imaging services, public and private hospitals, maternity care, hospice services, oral healthcare services, mental health care services, ambulances and emergency care aged residential care services if you are a resident public housing and social housing emergency accommodation for people in need. You can use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. Some transport providers may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. Children, students, their parents or caregivers will not be asked to provide proof of vaccination to access these places: early childhood education and care centres registered schools secondary schools school transport services out of school care and recreation programmes. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask when accessing services for basic needs. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information at business.govt.nz. Retail advice under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Health providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz. Advice for health providers under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | health.govt.nz (external link) Aged care providers can find more detailed information at health.govt.nz COVID-19: Aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link)
