Report your test result and tell the people you live with. They will also need to isolate and test on Day 3 and Day 7. What you need to know Household Contacts Isolation timeline tool Pre-departure tests to enter NZ After you have had COVID-19 Mask exemption pass Latest case numbers Posters Information for disabled people Alternate formats --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to get an updated My Vaccine Pass, your My Vaccine Record or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Face masks protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to get an updated My Vaccine Pass, your My Vaccine Record or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Face masks protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Report your test result and tell the people you live with. They will also need to isolate and test on Day 3 and Day 7. What you need to know Household Contacts Isolation timeline tool Pre-departure tests to enter NZ After you have had COVID-19 Mask exemption pass Information for seniors Latest case numbers Posters Alternate formats --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to get an updated My Vaccine Pass, your My Vaccine Record or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Face masks protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to get an updated My Vaccine Pass, your My Vaccine Record or International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Face masks protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home About our COVID-19 response About Unite against COVID-19 Unite against COVID-19 has evolved to support the next stage of Aotearoa's journey and response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Unite against COVID-19 was set up to help New Zealanders navigate their way through the COVID-19 pandemic. It is evolving to support the next stage of Aotearoa's journey based on the concept of "He waka eke noa — we are all in this together." --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 was a storm that had been raging across the world and eventually made its way to Aotearoa. This pūrorohū threatened our lifestyle, businesses and our very lives. We knew the only way we could survive was to shelter and wait for it to pass. So, we dropped anchor and took shelter, and focused on keeping people safe. Each time it threatened us we would do this and wait for it to pass. But, over time it has become apparent to us all that our weather has changed and this storm is now part of our new reality. --- Section Separator --- Our strength has always been in our sail. Our raranga is made strong by the threads working together. Over the past year we have added new threads to our raranga that have further strengthened our sail, so that we can now continue our journey. We can seek out new horizons with the confidence of knowing that if we hit some bad weather again, our navigation skills and the strength of our sail will carry us through to calmer waters. Working collaboratively with Māori designers and communication experts, our new sail motif reflects the journey we are on and is now woven through our designs and advertising. From this, a distinctive Aotearoa feel flows through our elements. --- Section Separator --- Our colour palette is influenced by the colours of the kererū. The taonga pūoro you now hear woven into the sting at the start of our audio advertisements represent the contemporary sounds of Aotearoa. These are New Zealand's sounds and voices. Taonga pūoro are considered an important medicine in healing. They are used as rongoā (medicine) for both mental health and physical ailments. Our taonga pūoro is recorded by musician Reti Hedley, Ngā Puhi, Ngāti Tūwharetoa. --- Section Separator --- Our yellow stripes and Alert Level campaign helped us shelter from the stormy weather, while reassuring New Zealanders we could get through together. Aotearoa is still navigating its journey with COVID-19, but, together we can continue to trust in the strength of our sail.
Home About our COVID-19 response History of the COVID-19 Alert System --- Section Separator --- The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of control measures in New Zealand and overseas, or the application of Alert Levels at different times, for example, the application may be different depending on if NZ is moving down or up Alert Levels). Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 102 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 210 KB] First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Northland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 move to Step 1 of Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 3. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 Step 1 move to Alert Level 3 Step 2 from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 Step 2 at 11:59pm. Upper Northland remains at Alert Level 3. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 1. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. Parts of Waikato move to Alert Level 2. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. All of New Zealand moved to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights, at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021. A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Alert Levels are determined by the Government and specify the public health and social measures to be taken in the fight against COVID-19. You can find further guidance on this website (covid19.govt.nz). The measures may be updated based on: new scientific knowledge about COVID-19 information about the effectiveness of control measures in New Zealand and overseas, or the application of Alert Levels at different times, for example, the application may be different depending on if NZ is moving down or up Alert Levels). Different parts of the country may be at different Alert Levels. We can move up and down Alert Levels. Services including supermarkets, health services, emergency services, utilities and goods transport will continue to operate at any level. Employers in those sectors must continue to meet health and safety obligations. Restrictions are cumulative, for example at Alert Level 4, all restrictions from Alert Levels 1, 2 and 3 apply. --- Section Separator --- Summary table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 102 KB] Detailed table of the COVID-19 Alert Levels [PDF, 210 KB] --- Section Separator --- First COVID-19 case reported in New Zealand. The Government announces anyone entering New Zealand must self-isolate for 14 days, except those arriving from the Pacific. All indoor gatherings of more than 100 people are to be cancelled. Borders close to all but New Zealand citizens and permanent residents. --- Section Separator --- The Government introduces the 4-tiered Alert Level system to help combat COVID-19. The Prime Minister announces that New Zealand is at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- At 1:30pm the Prime Minister announces New Zealand has moved to Alert Level 3, effective immediately. In 48 hours, New Zealand will move to Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4, and the entire nation goes into self-isolation. A State of National Emergency is declared at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand reports its first COVID-19-related death. --- Section Separator --- The State of National Emergency is extended at 9:27am. Further extensions are made at: 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 4 for an additional 5 days. New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 3 for 2 weeks, before the status is reviewed. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- No new cases of COVID-19 are reported in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister outlines the plan to move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The State of National Emergency expires at 12:21pm. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health reports that there are no more active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. At 11:59pm, New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 4 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. --- Section Separator --- At 12 noon, Auckland region moves to Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The Prime Minister announces that Auckland will remain at Alert Level 3 and the rest of New Zealand will remain at Alert Level 2 for 12 more days. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm, with extra restrictions on travel and gatherings. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- All regions except Auckland move to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 without extra restrictions on travel and gatherings at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- 3 new cases of COVID-19 are recorded in the community. Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand move to Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 2 at 6am. The rest of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 1 at midday. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- Wellington moves to Alert Level 1 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand is now at Alert Level 1. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand moves to Alert Level 4 at 11:59pm. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand south of Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and Northland remain at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. All of New Zealand (except Auckland) is now at Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand (except Auckland) moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 4. --- Section Separator --- Auckland and Upper Hauraki move to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Upper Hauraki moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas move to Alert Level 3 for 5 days from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Alert Level 3 restrictions in Auckland are eased from 11:59pm. Raglan, Te Kauwhata, Huntly, Ngāruawāhia, Hamilton City and some surrounding areas remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Waikato Alert Level 3 boundary is extended from 11:59pm to include Waitomo District, including Te Kuiti, Waipa District and Ōtorohanga District. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 with some restrictions eased. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 3 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Northland moves to Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 move to Step 1 of Alert Level 3. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 3. The parts of Waikato at Alert Level 3 Step 1 move to Alert Level 3 Step 2 from 11:59pm. Auckland remains at Step 1 of Alert Level 3. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Auckland moves to Alert Level 3 Step 2 at 11:59pm. Upper Northland remains at Alert Level 3. Parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 1. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Upper Northland moves to Alert Level 2. Auckland and parts of Waikato remain at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- Parts of Waikato move to Alert Level 2. Auckland remains at Alert Level 3 Step 2. The rest of New Zealand remains at Alert Level 2. --- Section Separator --- All of New Zealand moved to the COVID-19 Protection Framework, also known as the traffic lights, at 11:59pm on 2 December 2021. --- Section Separator --- A State of National Emergency was declared due to COVID-19. It was in force between 12:21pm on 25 March 2020 and 12:21pm on Wednesday 13 May 2020. It covered all of New Zealand including the Chatham Islands, Stewart Island and other offshore islands. The declaration was made by the Minister of Civil Defence Hon Peeni Henare in consultation with the Prime Minister Rt Hon Jacinda Ardern following advice from the Director of Civil Defence and Emergency Management. The State of National Emergency was distinct from the COVID-19 Alert System. Under the Civil Defence Emergency Management Act 2002, a state of emergency expires 7 days after it’s declared unless it is terminated or extended. The State of National Emergency was extended at: 9:27am on 31 March 2020 9:25am on 2 April 2020 12:21pm on 8 April 2020 12:21pm on 15 April 2020 12:21pm on 22 April 2020 12:21pm on 29 April 2020 12:21pm on 5 May 2020. --- Section Separator --- Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases History of the COVID-19 Alert System About Unite against COVID-19
Home About our COVID-19 response Legislation and key documents --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] — updated May 2022 The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2021 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- National Action Plan – version 3.0 as of 22 April 2020 (extended) [PDF, 510 KB] National Action Plan – version 2.0 as of 1 April 2020 [PDF, 1.6 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Guidance on the use of CDEM Act key powers during the COVID-19 related state of national emergency – updated 9 April 2020 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Stamp it Out: Our plan to respond to new COVID-19 cases in the community — July 2020 [PDF, 49 KB] Rapid response to cases of COVID-19 in the community — August 2020 [PDF, 48 KB] COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] — updated May 2022 --- Section Separator --- The Government publicly released documents relating to decisions as part of its response to COVID-19. The release includes the papers, minutes and key advice for the decisions the Government has made relating to COVID-19 up to 10 August 2020. Proactively released documents The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet also proactively released briefings on behalf of Hon Peeni Henare, Minister of Civil Defence. Briefings on the State of National Emergency for COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Health Act 1956 (external link) Epidemic Preparedness Act 2006 (external link) Civil Defence and Emergency Management Act 2002 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Public Health Response Amendment Act 2021 (external link) COVID-19 Recovery (Fast-track Consenting) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Further Management Measures) Legislation Act (No 2) 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Requirements For Entities—Modifications and Exemptions) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Other Regulatory Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Taxation and Social Assistance Urgent Measures) Act 2020 (external link) COVID-19 Response (Urgent Management Measures) Legislation Act 2020 (external link) Immigration (COVID-19 Response) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Imprest Supply (Third for 2019/20) Act 2020 (external link) Overseas Investment (Urgent Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Remuneration Authority (COVID-19 Measures) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) Social Security (COVID-19 Income Relief Payment to be Income) Amendment Act 2020 (external link) --- Section Separator --- Several orders have been produced under the Health Act 1956 for New Zealand’s COVID-19 response. These have now been revoked or replaced by orders made under COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020. COVID-19 Public Health Response Act 2020 (external link) More information about the previous Orders at Parliamentary Counsel Office website (external link) To underscore the importance of individuals following the advice they have been given by the public health units or the national contact tracing team, a Section 70 of the Health Act 1956 can be issued. A Section 70 order enables an authorised Medical Officer of Health to require those in the order to meet public health requirements to undergo testing and to isolate until they receive their result. Any time a person receives a direction from a medical officer of health they must comply with it. Current section 70 orders on the Ministry of Health website (external link) --- Section Separator --- Independent Advisory Groups Legislation and key documents Proactive releases History of the COVID-19 Alert System About Unite against COVID-19
Home About our COVID-19 response Proactive releases Reviews and audits --- Section Separator --- Rapid Review of Initial Operating Model and Organisational Arrangments for the National Response to COVID-19 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Second rapid review of the COVID-19 all-of-government response [PDF, 1.7 MB] Dr Ayesha Verrall’s audit of the contact tracing system (external link) Draft Report of the Advisory Committee to Oversee the Implementation of the New Zealand COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy — September 2020 [PDF, 230 KB] Progress against the review of surveillance, testing and contact tracing [PDF, 1.2 MB] Review of New Zealand's COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy [PDF, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Testing Advisory Notes [PDF, 752 KB] Reports provided by members to the co-chairs [PDF, 2.2 MB] Declaration of Interests — Rawiri McKree Jansen [PDF, 918 KB] Declaration of Interests — Dr Apisalome Talemaitoga [PDF, 1.3 MB] Declaration of Interests — Philip Hill [PDF, 618 KB] View documents from the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group --- Section Separator --- Rapid Review of Initial Operating Model and Organisational Arrangments for the National Response to COVID-19 [PDF, 1.1 MB] Second rapid review of the COVID-19 all-of-government response [PDF, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Dr Ayesha Verrall’s audit of the contact tracing system (external link) Draft Report of the Advisory Committee to Oversee the Implementation of the New Zealand COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy — September 2020 [PDF, 230 KB] Progress against the review of surveillance, testing and contact tracing [PDF, 1.2 MB] Review of New Zealand's COVID-19 Surveillance Plan and Testing Strategy [PDF, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Testing Advisory Notes [PDF, 752 KB] Reports provided by members to the co-chairs [PDF, 2.2 MB] Declaration of Interests — Rawiri McKree Jansen [PDF, 918 KB] Declaration of Interests — Dr Apisalome Talemaitoga [PDF, 1.3 MB] Declaration of Interests — Philip Hill [PDF, 618 KB] --- Section Separator --- View documents from the COVID-19 Independent Continuous Review, Improvement and Advice Group --- Section Separator --- Alert Level System and COVID-19 Protection Framework Border Economy Education Health response Housing Income support measures Independent advisory groups Offshore issues Research Reviews and audits Wage subsidy and leave schemes
Home About this site Contact us Find contact information for the COVID-19 group at the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. I am looking for... Communication and language support COVID-19 support Financial support Report a breach Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- You can find guidance and submit an Official Information Request to the COVID-19 Group on the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet website: How to make an Official Information Act request Find information and advice translated into different languages: Translations Find information and advice in alternate formats for disabled people with communication needs: Alternate formats Immigration New Zealand can answer questions about travel eligibility and visa categories. Contact Immigration NZ | immigration.govt.nz Reasons you can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz If you run or own a business, you can find information on the business.govt website: COVID-19: Information for businesses COVID-19 Protection Framework (traffic lights) Contact us | business.govt.nz We have a selection of posters available for in the traffic light settings available on this website. You can also get your QR code poster. Download posters Get your QR code poster All our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, can be viewed and download through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email: covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz You will need to contact the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment. You can send a query through an online form on the Employment website or call them. Online form | employment.govt.nz Call: 0800 20 90 20 Call 111 immediately. If you have COVID-19, tell them when you ring. You need to contact your care co-ordinator or call Healthline. Call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19response@health.govt.nz There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a participating vaccination site. How to get your My Vaccine Pass There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 There are 3 ways to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate — online through My Covid Record, over the phone, and in person at a pharmacy. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You will need to contact MIQ. You can find contact details on their website. Contact us | miq.govt.nz If you have a health concern after your vaccination, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your doctor. You will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email: covid-19vaccine@health.govt.nz Visit the Work and Income website for urgent financial support and ongoing needs. You can apply for a main benefit online and check your eligibility for food assistance. Work and Income website (external link) 0800 559 009 (MSD General Line) 0800 552 002 (Seniors 65+) 0800 88 99 00 (Students) In MyMSD you can check your payments, tell MSD about changes and apply for a benefit or NZ Super: Use MyMSD You can also use the COVID-19 financial support tool on this website to see what support is available to you. Use the financial support tool If you are concerned that someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. This includes people not complying with: traffic light settings vaccination or testing requirements for workers. Report a breach online Face masks If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements How to report false or misleading information that you see can be found on this website. Report false or misleading information Contact the COVID-19 media team: Email: covid19media@dpmc.govt.nz The NZ COVID Tracer app helps you protect yourself, your whānau, and your community by enabling faster contact tracing. NZ COVID Tracer app | health.govt.nz Businesses and workplaces are no longer required to display a QR code poster, but can choose to do so. There are 2 ways to get your QR code posters, and you can use whichever way is easiest for you. Get your QR code poster If you have questions or feedback about the app, QR code posters or any problems using them, you will need to contact the Ministry of Health. Email help@covidtracer.min.health.nz Call 0800 800 606 You must enable JavaScript to submit this form --- Section Separator --- Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. --- Section Separator --- If you believe someone is not sticking to the rules, you can report it. Report a breach --- Section Separator --- You can contact the COVID-19 Group by using our online form above or sending a letter to us. If you are sending us feedback about Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage that you have feedback about. Postal address: COVID-19 Group Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington New Zealand
Home About this site Privacy --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. You may browse and access information contained within this website — including completing user research tasks, like filling in a survey — without providing any personal information. If you provide information (including personal information) to us — for example, through the general enquiry form — we will only use that information to: administer, evaluate, improve, and secure our ICT systems, our website, and the information our website contains (ICT and website purposes) improve our services action or respond to the information provided and communicate with you (this may include sharing the information with other government organisations to enable a response or action), and where such disclosure is required or permitted by law. We will keep any such information secure. We may share it with third parties to the extent necessary for the services they provide to us related to the purposes of our ICT systems and website. We have software to track which pages are visited. This helps us identify the most popular areas of our website. The information is aggregated, and we cannot identify individual visitors. Learn more about how we use statistical information You have the right to ask for a copy of any personal information we hold about you, and to ask for it to be corrected if you think it is wrong. If you would like to ask for a copy of your information, or to have it corrected, or you have any concerns about personal information that we hold, please write to: The Privacy Officer Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington or send an email to information@dpmc.govt.nz We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) --- Section Separator --- This policy explains how and when covid19.govt.nz collects personal information, what we do with it and your right to see or change it. --- Section Separator --- The purpose of this privacy policy is to let users of covid19.govt.nz (the ‘site’) know when we collect personal information and what we do with it. We do not use, share or transfer personal information in connection with the site except as set out in this policy, or as otherwise set out somewhere on the site including in terms linking to the site. --- Section Separator --- You may browse and access information contained within this website — including completing user research tasks, like filling in a survey — without providing any personal information. If you provide information (including personal information) to us — for example, through the general enquiry form — we will only use that information to: administer, evaluate, improve, and secure our ICT systems, our website, and the information our website contains (ICT and website purposes) improve our services action or respond to the information provided and communicate with you (this may include sharing the information with other government organisations to enable a response or action), and where such disclosure is required or permitted by law. We will keep any such information secure. We may share it with third parties to the extent necessary for the services they provide to us related to the purposes of our ICT systems and website. We have software to track which pages are visited. This helps us identify the most popular areas of our website. The information is aggregated, and we cannot identify individual visitors. Learn more about how we use statistical information You have the right to ask for a copy of any personal information we hold about you, and to ask for it to be corrected if you think it is wrong. If you would like to ask for a copy of your information, or to have it corrected, or you have any concerns about personal information that we hold, please write to: The Privacy Officer Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet Parliament Buildings Wellington or send an email to information@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- We may collect statistical information about your visit to our website to help us improve it. This information does not identify individuals, and makes use of cookies. A cookie is a piece of code that creates a file on your computer to track the pages that you view on our website. This site generates persistent session cookies for the purpose of monitoring site usage. These have an expiry date and are removed on that date. The cookies do not collect personal information. You can disable them or clear them out of your web browser without affecting your ability to use the site. --- Section Separator --- We use Google Universal Analytics to collect and analyse details about the use of our website. You may turn off cookies at any time. Most browsers have a feature that allows the user to refuse cookies, or issues a warning when cookies are being sent. Turning off cookies will not affect your ability to use this website. The information Google Analytics collects includes: the first 3 parts of the IP address of your device the pages you accessed on this website and the links you clicked on the date and time you visited this website the referring site, if any, through which you clicked through to this website the operating system, for example, Windows 7 or Mac OSX on your device the type of web browser you used, for example, Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox other incidental information such as screen resolution and the language setting you used. The data is collected and stored on the Google server and is viewable by authorised staff as detailed in their privacy policy. We may share this information with other government agencies. You may choose to not have Google Analytics collect your information by disabling cookies in your browser, or by installing the Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on. Google Analytics Opt-out browser add-on (external link) How Google uses data when you use their partners’ sites or apps (external link) We use Hotjar's analysis tools, including heatmaps and polls, to better understand our website visitors and collect user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on users’ behaviour and their devices, including: device IP address device screen size and type browser information geographic location (country only) preferred language used to display our website. You can choose to not have Hotjar collect your information by visiting Hotjar's opt-out page or enabling Do Not Track (DNT) in your browser. Opt out of Hotjar on this browser (external link) Hotjar's privacy policy (external link) We use Swiftype to collect details about what people search for on our website. It collects cookies and usage data. Swiftype privacy statement (external link) --- Section Separator --- Privacy Terms of use Contact us Use this website for free from your mobile Archive
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. You might be interested in Get a booster International travel vaccination certificates How to use My Covid Record About Novavax Vaccine advice for disabled people COVID-19 vaccine data --- Section Separator --- Talk to the COVID Vaccination Healthline 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. Call 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. Some workers must be fully vaccinated to go to work. Find more information on who needs to be vaccinated. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. Some workers must be fully vaccinated to go to work. Find more information on who needs to be vaccinated. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines. Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Nanogirl: The COVID-19 vaccine explained, for kids Boosters and Omicron — Your questions answered Dr Jin Russell — 4 reasons to get tamariki immunised against COVID-19 Dr Owen Sinclair — The risks and benefits of immunisation for children Jaki's story — Vaccinating people with needle phobias Dr Nikki Turner — Vaccines and pregnancy --- Section Separator --- Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources, including videos, posters and flyers.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines. --- Section Separator --- Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Find out how COVID-19 vaccines were developed, how we know they are effective, and how the Pfizer vaccine works. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine. --- Section Separator --- Children and young people aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination now. Learn about the effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccines, providing consent, and what to expect at the appointment. This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. Learn about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. Here you can learn from the experts and get answers about popular topics. Find out how COVID-19 vaccines were developed, how we know they are effective, and how the Pfizer vaccine works. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. How to have a positive and respectful conversation when someone you care about has fears or concerns about the COVID-19 vaccine.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 The COVID-19 vaccine protects your child, your whānau and your community. It is free and available now for everyone aged 5 and over. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. Like adults, if your child is infected with COVID-19 they may transmit the virus to other people. Immunising tamariki helps protect whānau members whose health makes them more vulnerable to COVID-19. Dr Jin Russell — 4 reasons to get tamariki immunised against COVID-19 Dr Owen Sinclair — The risks and benefits of immunising tamariki Dr Pete Watson — How immunising tamariki helps protect your community --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 generally has mild effects in children and is rarely severe or fatal. Children and young people who have COVID-19 will commonly have no symptoms or only mild respiratory symptoms, similar to a cold. However, some can become very sick and need to go to hospital. Rare complications can include Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome (MIS-C), which may require intensive care. This age group can also suffer long-term side effects (known as long COVID), even after mild cases of COVID-19. Learn more about the effects of COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Tamariki aged 5 to 11 can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. They will receive a children’s (paediatric) version of the Pfizer vaccine, with a lower dose and smaller volume. It is also given using a smaller needle. The lower dose was chosen based on a trial that showed the lower dose was safe and had few side effects in this age group. Children are not eligible for a booster or the AstraZeneca vaccine. To be fully protected, children need 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine. We recommend the first and second dose are at least 8 weeks apart. The interval can be shortened to a minimum of 21 days if needed — for example, if the child is starting significant immunosuppression treatment. You will need to discuss this with the child's doctor. --- Section Separator --- If children and young people who have been vaccinated do develop COVID-19, they are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. For children aged 5 to 11, clinical trial results showed the Pfizer vaccine was 90.7% effective against getting COVID-19 symptoms, and no participants developed severe COVID-19. Dr Lily Fraser — effects of COVID-19 on tamariki Dr Jin Russell — How safe is the vaccination for tamariki? --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is responsible for approving the use of all medicines and vaccines in New Zealand. They only approve a vaccine in Aotearoa once they are satisfied it has met strict standards for safety, efficacy and quality. The trials in 5 to 11-year-olds with a child dose of the Pfizer showed the vaccine was safe, and the side effects were generally mild. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine Research and data on vaccinating children aged 5-11 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Explain that it might hurt for a short time, just like their other childhood immunisations. Tell them there will be a small needle and that they will feel a sharp scratch or sting briefly but then it will be over. They may have a sore arm, fever, headache or feel tired afterwards. It is important to tell them why they are getting vaccinated. Let them know the vaccine will protect them against COVID-19, and protect their family, their grandparents, their community, and other kids at school who may be more at risk from COVID-19 if they catch it. Make sure they know they will need 2 doses. Give them time to ask the vaccinator questions if they have them. Have some games or toys ready so you can distract them during their vaccination and entertain them while you wait for 15 minutes afterwards. Arrange a fun activity or treat to look forward to after the appointment. Tell them that they might feel a bit unwell or a day or two, and arrange to spend some extra time with them if you can. What to expect after your child's vaccination [PDF, 260 KB] --- Section Separator --- Nanogirl: The COVID-19 vaccine explained, for kids Dr Lily talks with tamariki about vaccines Dr Teuila Percival — Explaining the COVID-19 vaccine to children --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand that offer vaccinations for tamariki. Book online or over the phone, or visit a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre. Book My Vaccine (external link) (external link) Check the appointment availability map first — it shows you where vaccination sites are, and how soon you can get an appointment. You can choose the child vaccine (5-11s) or adult vaccine (12+) from the dropdown menu. Appointment availability map (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz 0800 28 29 26 It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. It is a good idea to have your child's NHI (National Health Index) number ready. This will make the booking process quicker. How to find an NHI number (external link) There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment.> Not all COVID-19 vaccination sites will be offering vaccinations to 5 to 11-year-olds. Find a walk-in or drive-through vaccination centre near you --- Section Separator --- If you would like to talk through any questions or worries, you can call 0800 28 29 26 from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. The COVID Vaccination Healthline team will be able to chat through your concerns and, if needed, can refer you to a medical professional. --- Section Separator --- Information for Māori communities | Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination | Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link)
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Unite against COVID-19 Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Information for Māori communities — Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination information — Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Starting a conversation with someone who is vaccine hesitant — Rachel Prebble How to have a positive conversation about hesitancy — Rachel Prebble Talking to Whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine — Dr Hinemoa Elder --- Section Separator --- It can be tricky to know what to do or say when someone you care about expresses fears or concerns about getting the COVID-19 vaccination. Here are a few pointers about how to have the conversation in a positive and respectful way. It is okay to have questions. Make sure you are both relaxed, free of interruptions and not needing to rush away. People’s concerns are real and genuine for them. Be open, respectful, and be genuinely curious about the reasons why they feel the way they do. Do not forget that someone’s culture, family dynamics and circumstances may also influence their views. “Hey, is now a good time to talk to you about getting vaccinated? I really want you to have the best protection against COVID-19, but I know you’ve got some concerns. I’m really curious though, can you describe what’s holding you back?” Being argumentative could shut down a conversation. Do not try to “win” the conversation, instead listen to understand, not to respond. Words matter – using the word “but” can evoke a negative response, instead try “and also…” or “at the same time, it could be that…”, “a different way to look at that might be...” Actions matter – interrupting, raising your voice or rolling your eyes will all feel like judgments and could stop the conversation. Do not try to fill the space if there is a pause, as this allows for time to reflect and shows respect. Ask open questions to help understand their concerns. When you understand what their concerns are, you will be able to share information to help address their concerns or understand why the things they have heard might be misinformation. “What have you heard about the COVID-19 vaccine?”, or “Why do you feel that way?”. Recommend they talk to their doctor or another trusted health professional to get answers to their questions. Sit down with them to look at trusted resources like the Unite against COVID-19 and Ministry of Health websites. You will find reliable information about things like the vaccine, safety and effectiveness.  If appropriate, offer to help them look for information. Unite against COVID-19 Ministry of Health (external link) COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Information for Māori communities — Karawhiua (external link) COVID-19 vaccination information — Ministry for Pacific Peoples (external link) Do not be discouraged if you cannot resolve the conversation the first time. You will probably need to keep the conversation going over time.  You cannot change their mind, only they can – be kind, be respectful, offer to help, create opportunities for them to access trusted information – it may be just the nudge needed. --- Section Separator --- Vaccine conversations poster [PDF, 619 KB] Conversations with whānau and friends poster [PDF, 872 KB] Advice for families: Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] --- Section Separator --- Starting a conversation with someone who is vaccine hesitant — Rachel Prebble How to have a positive conversation about hesitancy — Rachel Prebble Talking to Whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine — Dr Hinemoa Elder --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice If you are pregnant or breastfeeding --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. It is recommended that pregnant people receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get your booster at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster at least 6 months after completing your primary course. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster Sarah, 25 weeks pregnant, on vaccine hesitancy Doctor Nikki on pregnancy, COVID-19, and the vaccine If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Side effects Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- You can get the Pfizer vaccine at any stage of your pregnancy. The vaccine protects you as you are far less likely to fall seriously ill, and can also protect your baby. Evidence shows that babies can get antibodies through the placenta. If you catch COVID-19 when you are pregnant, you are more likely to become very unwell. There is no evidence that the vaccine is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage during pregnancy. No additional safety concerns have been raised. The Pfizer vaccine does not contain a live virus or any ingredients that are harmful to pregnant people or their babies. Research and data about pregnancy and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. There is insufficient data on the use of Novavax in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. It is recommended that pregnant people receive a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine to help protect them and their baby against the effects of COVID-19. The booster vaccine can be given at any stage of pregnancy. If you are 18 or over, you can get your booster at least 3 months after your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). If you are 16 or 17, you can get a Pfizer booster at least 6 months after completing your primary course. You should discuss the timing of your booster with your midwife, obstetrician or doctor. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Sarah, 25 weeks pregnant, on vaccine hesitancy Doctor Nikki on pregnancy, COVID-19, and the vaccine --- Section Separator --- If you are breastfeeding, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. Studies show there are no additional safety concerns or issues with continuing to breastfeed after vaccination. If you are vaccinated against COVID-19, there is evidence that you can provide extra protection for your baby through antibodies in your breastmilk. Research and data about breastfeeding and vaccination | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are planning to get pregnant, you can get the Pfizer vaccine at any time. It will not affect your genes or fertility. COVID-19 vaccination and fertility | covid.immune.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Side effects Get the facts about COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice Vaccine advice for disabled people This section has information about COVID-19 vaccination for disabled people. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. Children and young people with disabilities can get vaccinated at some accessible sites with their whānau. Learn more about vaccinations for children If you are aged 18 and over, and it has been 3 months since your last dose, you can book your booster now. Young people aged 16 and 17 can get a free Pfizer booster 6 months after completing their primary course. Learn more about booster doses --- Section Separator --- If you are worried about getting the vaccine, you can talk to a trained advisor in the Healthline disability team. The team is made up of people who have experience of a disability themselves, or who have worked with the disabled community. They will support you, your whānau or someone you care for and answer any questions you may have about: accessibility arrangements and getting mobility assistance at different vaccination centres getting your vaccination safely home vaccinations any effects the vaccine may have on you or your medications. The disability team is available Monday to Friday, from 8am to 8pm. Call: 0800 28 29 26 and push 2 Free text: 8988 Email: accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz --- Section Separator --- Using My Vaccine Pass is no longer a legal requirement, but some businesses, events and venues may choose to still use it. This means you may need to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter some places. You can still receive essential care even if you do not have a My Vaccine Pass. Your care and support workers must continue to be fully vaccinated and boosted. This is so they can keep you safe, and reduce the risk of passing COVID-19 to you. All health workers also need to be fully vaccinated and boosted. Find out more about the changes to My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- If you have decided you want to get the vaccine, it is easy to get vaccinated. You can get your vaccination at: an accessible site your doctor or local pharmacy any other vaccination centre near you. You can also talk to, text or email a trained advisor to discuss whether a home vaccination is right for you. Some vaccination centres are fully accessible. Your family, whānau and support workers are also welcome to get their vaccinations with you. Map of vaccination centres around Aotearoa New Zealand | karawhiua.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can book your vaccination by: calling the COVID Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and pushing '2' to speak to the disability team. The COVID Healthline is open from 8am to 8pm, Monday to Friday. using the free text option on 8988 . emailing accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz using Book My Vaccine (external link) . The website is accessible and can be used with a screen reader. The disability team can also help you book an appointment for your tamariki at an accessible site. --- Section Separator --- You can take a support person with you when you get your vaccination. This can be a carer, or someone else you trust. When you get to the vaccination site, you will need to sign in. If you need an NZSL interpreter or information in an accessible format, please ask. When it is your time to get vaccinated, the staff will ask you whether it is okay to give you the vaccine. If you say yes, this is called consent. If you cannot give consent, someone who is allowed to make decisions for you can give consent for you. The vaccinator may also ask you questions about how you are feeling, and what medication you take. It is normal to feel scared or worried. Ask the vaccinator if you have any questions. You will need to wait for 15 minutes after your vaccination. If this is hard for you, ask if you can wait somewhere else. --- Section Separator --- You can choose to get the vaccine. You can say yes or no or ask for help making your decision. For disabled people or people with an impairment, the journey to get vaccinated may look a little different. We have created the Manaakitanga Journey online tool to help support disabled people to get vaccinated. The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [DOCX, 66 KB] The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [PDF, 539 KB] The Manaakitanga journey to getting vaccinated for disabled people [PNG, 1 MB] Toolkit for organisations working with disabled people [PDF, 2.5 MB] Read our answers to some of the most commonly asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine Read vaccine advice if you have a health condition Use the decision making tool to help. You can fill in the tool yourself and take it with you to your vaccination appointment. Make a decision about having the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) Talk to your whānau or a trusted support person. Talk to your doctor. Your doctor is the health professional who knows you best. You might want to ask your doctor questions about the COVID-19 vaccine — for example how the vaccine may affect any health problems you have, or if there are any risks for you. If you are supporting someone with a disability to make a decision about getting the COVID-19 vaccine, you can use one of the supported decision making tools. Choose the guidance tool or combination of tools that best suits the person you are supporting. Tools for supporting disabled people to make a decision about the COVID-19 vaccine (external link) How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice If you have a health condition --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. Learn more about COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people — Ministry of Health (external link) If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). You can get a free Pfizer booster if: you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 6 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Get your vaccine booster A second booster is recommended for those at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a minimum of 6 months after a first booster. We will update this page with information about who is eligible and how to book in the next few weeks. If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine. What the AstraZeneca vaccine contains What is in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- If you have an underlying health condition, it is safe for you to get the COVID-19 vaccination. Participants in the clinical trials for the COVID-19 vaccines had a range of different ethnicities, ages, sexes and underlying health conditions. We encourage you to get the vaccination if you have: serious respiratory disease, including chronic lung disease and severe asthma a serious heart condition immunocompromised conditions hypertension (high blood pressure) diabetes chronic kidney disease liver disease stroke cancer. If you have any concerns, talk to your doctor. --- Section Separator --- If you are immunocompromised, you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19. You can get the COVID-19 vaccine when receiving medication or therapy that affects your immune system. As with all vaccines, you may not respond as strongly as someone with a fully functioning immune system. But getting the vaccine can protect you from becoming very unwell if you get COVID-19. The best time to get vaccinated is before any planned immunosuppression, but do not delay any treatment. If you are severely immunocompromised, talk with your doctor or specialist about the timings of your vaccination. You can get the vaccine at any stage of treatment. You may be able to time your vaccination appointments between rounds of treatment for the best immune response. To help protect yourself, encourage your family and the people you live with to also get vaccinated when it is available to them. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. It should be given 8 weeks after the second dose, but may be given 4 weeks after, depending on current or planned immunosuppressive therapies. The eligibility criteria to get a third primary dose is complex. It only applies to people who are severely immunocompromised. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. You can only get a third primary dose after seeing your doctor or specialist. They can give you a prescription to take to any vaccination centre. Appointments with your doctor for a third primary dose are free. Learn more about COVID-19 vaccination for severely immunocompromised people — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have a pre-existing condition that puts you at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19, you are encouraged to get your booster as soon as possible. You can get a free booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). You can get a free Pfizer booster if: you are fully vaccinated, and it has been at least 6 months since you completed your primary course (for most people, this is 2 doses). Get your vaccine booster A second booster is recommended for those at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a minimum of 6 months after a first booster. We will update this page with information about who is eligible and how to book in the next few weeks. --- Section Separator --- If you take medications regularly for a health condition, you should keep taking them before you get vaccinated. If you are taking medications that suppress your immune system, you should talk to your doctor or specialist about timings of your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- If you have had a serious or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, discuss this with your doctor or vaccinator. You should talk to your doctor about which vaccine is suitable for you if you have a history of anaphylaxis: to any ingredient in the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine to a previous dose of the Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine. What the AstraZeneca vaccine contains What is in the Pfizer vaccine — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Let the radiographer or doctor know you have recently been vaccinated. The vaccine can occasionally cause the lymph nodes in your armpit or neck to swell for a few days. This may be seen on the mammogram or ultrasound for up to a few weeks or in a CT scan, including those used to diagnose and check for cancers. If you need a CT scan, mammogram or ultrasound, you should not delay these appointments. If you have concerns, discuss them with your specialist or radiographer. --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice About the AstraZeneca vaccine --- Section Separator --- The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and older who either wants a different option or if you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. Both the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines will protect you against the symptoms of COVID-19. Both vaccines are free. The AstraZeneca vaccine needs 2 doses. You will need to wait at least 4 weeks before getting your second dose. To have the best protection, you need to get both doses of the vaccine. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety by Medsafe. Medsafe only grants approval for using a vaccine in Aotearoa once it is satisfied the international evidence shows benefits outweigh the risks. There have been no shortcuts taken in granting approval. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been used successfully by millions worldwide. You should not get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you: have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients have had a major blood clot at the same time as having low levels of platelets (thrombocytopenia) after receiving any COVID-19 vaccine have had Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS – a condition causing fluid leakage from small blood vessels). You cannot get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you are under 18 years old. The AstraZeneca vaccine is injected into a muscle (usually in the upper arm). The second injection can be given between 4 and 12 weeks after the first injection. If you get AstraZeneca for the first dose then you should also get it (and not the Pfizer vaccine) for the second dose. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination. There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. Pregnancy and the Pfizer vaccine The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The AstraZeneca vaccine stimulates the body’s immune system. It causes the body to produce antibodies to help fight the virus. This will help to protect you against COVID-19 in the future. None of the ingredients in this vaccine can cause COVID-19. COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. In the clinical trials, the AstraZeneca vaccine gave 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. It also shows effectiveness against hospital admission of at least 80% after a single dose. For the best protection, you need 2 doses. As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines There are some side effects that are very rare but are more serious. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. If you experience any of these symptoms, seek medical attention immediately. AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Assessing and approving the vaccines | Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca | Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) --- Section Separator --- The AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is available for anyone aged 18 years and older who either wants a different option or if you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine. Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. Both the Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines will protect you against the symptoms of COVID-19. Both vaccines are free. The AstraZeneca vaccine needs 2 doses. You will need to wait at least 4 weeks before getting your second dose. To have the best protection, you need to get both doses of the vaccine. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been thoroughly assessed for safety by Medsafe. Medsafe only grants approval for using a vaccine in Aotearoa once it is satisfied the international evidence shows benefits outweigh the risks. There have been no shortcuts taken in granting approval. The AstraZeneca vaccine has been used successfully by millions worldwide. --- Section Separator --- You should not get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you: have had a severe allergic reaction to this vaccine or its ingredients have had a major blood clot at the same time as having low levels of platelets (thrombocytopenia) after receiving any COVID-19 vaccine have had Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS – a condition causing fluid leakage from small blood vessels). You cannot get the AstraZeneca vaccine if you are under 18 years old. The AstraZeneca vaccine is injected into a muscle (usually in the upper arm). The second injection can be given between 4 and 12 weeks after the first injection. If you get AstraZeneca for the first dose then you should also get it (and not the Pfizer vaccine) for the second dose. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination. There is insufficient data on the use of AstraZeneca in pregnant people, so Pfizer remains the preferred choice of vaccine for this group. Talk to your doctor about whether the AstraZeneca vaccine is suitable for you if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or if you think you may be pregnant. Pregnancy and the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The AstraZeneca vaccine stimulates the body’s immune system. It causes the body to produce antibodies to help fight the virus. This will help to protect you against COVID-19 in the future. None of the ingredients in this vaccine can cause COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. In the clinical trials, the AstraZeneca vaccine gave 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. It also shows effectiveness against hospital admission of at least 80% after a single dose. For the best protection, you need 2 doses. --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects of COVID-19 vaccines There are some side effects that are very rare but are more serious. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. If you experience any of these symptoms, seek medical attention immediately. --- Section Separator --- AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Assessing and approving the vaccines | Ministry of Health (external link) About COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca | Immunisation Advisory Centre (external link) --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice About the Pfizer vaccine --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. It does not contain any live, dead or deactivated viruses. It does not affect or interact with your DNA or genes. If you are aged 18 years or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The vaccine sends a set of instructions to teach your body how to fight the COVID-19 virus. With these instructions, your body learns to recognise the COVID-19 virus and use antibodies against it. Antibodies stop the virus from infecting your cells and help to kill it. If you come into contact with the COVID-19 virus in the future, your body will have the right tools to protect itself so you are less likely to get sick. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. We know the Pfizer vaccine works because it went through months of clinical testing with more than 40,000 people before it was approved for use. Clinical trials compared the results of a vaccinated group with another group who received a placebo (salt solution). In the clinical trials, it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. COVID-19: Vaccine clinical trials and testing – Ministry of Health (external link) Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) This is the first time scientists and governments from around the world have united to develop a vaccine. This global collaboration meant vaccines were developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Scientists had a head start because of all the research already carried out on related viruses. Governments, private companies and funding agencies have spent a lot of money. This means more could be done in a short space of time. Researchers and governments from different countries shared information and worked together. More people than usual volunteered for clinical trials. Some clinical trials were done at the same time, instead of one after another. Large manufacturing plants were built so more vaccines can be made faster than was possible before. Researchers could show the vaccine worked sooner than usual, because there are so many cases of COVID-19. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. Medsafe has given the Pfizer vaccine provisional approval (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It reviews data from ongoing clinical trials around the world, and reports from healthcare professionals and people who have been vaccinated. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects It is normal to have questions about taking a new medicine. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine. You can protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Learn how to spot misinformation and scams COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- The main COVID-19 vaccine we are using in New Zealand is made by Pfizer-BioNTech. It is also known by its brand name, Comirnaty. It is an mRNA-based (messenger ribonucleic acid) vaccine. It does not contain any live, dead or deactivated viruses. It does not affect or interact with your DNA or genes. If you are aged 18 years or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca vaccine. What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine --- Section Separator --- The type of coronavirus that causes COVID-19 is new to humans. This is why our bodies do not already know how to fight it off. The vaccine sends a set of instructions to teach your body how to fight the COVID-19 virus. With these instructions, your body learns to recognise the COVID-19 virus and use antibodies against it. Antibodies stop the virus from infecting your cells and help to kill it. If you come into contact with the COVID-19 virus in the future, your body will have the right tools to protect itself so you are less likely to get sick. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is a virus and how do vaccines work? Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: What is an mRNA vaccine? --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines are already the most well-studied vaccines ever made. We know the Pfizer vaccine works because it went through months of clinical testing with more than 40,000 people before it was approved for use. Clinical trials compared the results of a vaccinated group with another group who received a placebo (salt solution). In the clinical trials, it was found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. COVID-19: Vaccine clinical trials and testing – Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) --- Section Separator --- This is the first time scientists and governments from around the world have united to develop a vaccine. This global collaboration meant vaccines were developed very quickly but without taking any shortcuts in the necessary processes or compromising safety. Scientists had a head start because of all the research already carried out on related viruses. Governments, private companies and funding agencies have spent a lot of money. This means more could be done in a short space of time. Researchers and governments from different countries shared information and worked together. More people than usual volunteered for clinical trials. Some clinical trials were done at the same time, instead of one after another. Large manufacturing plants were built so more vaccines can be made faster than was possible before. Researchers could show the vaccine worked sooner than usual, because there are so many cases of COVID-19. Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Are vaccines safe? --- Section Separator --- Medsafe is New Zealand’s medicines safety authority. It checks applications for all new medicines, including vaccines, to make sure they meet international standards and local requirements. It will only recommend a medicine is approved for use in New Zealand if it meets these standards. Medsafe has given the Pfizer vaccine provisional approval (with conditions) for use in New Zealand. This means it is been formally approved, but Pfizer must give Medsafe ongoing data and reporting to show that it meets international standards. Medsafe will continue to monitor the safety and efficacy of the vaccine as it is used. It reviews data from ongoing clinical trials around the world, and reports from healthcare professionals and people who have been vaccinated. Assessing and approving the vaccines — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- It is normal to have questions about taking a new medicine. We all need accurate and reliable information when we make a decision for ourselves and our whānau. There is some misleading information out there about the vaccine. You can protect yourself and others by knowing how to spot misinformation. Learn how to spot misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered What to expect when you get your vaccination How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- Vaccination for children aged 5 to 11 Vaccine advice for disabled people If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine Talking to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine
Find, download and share posters, fact sheets and other useful resources about COVID-19 vaccination. --- Section Separator --- Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan. --- Section Separator --- Learn about the COVID-19 pandemic, getting vaccinated, and what the future holds for Aotearoa New Zealand. Find and download COVID-19 vaccine campaign resources. Find and download fact sheets about the COVID-19 vaccine, getting vaccinated and our vaccine rollout plan.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine resources Fact sheets --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 150 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] Everything you need to know about Novavax [PDF, 321 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 360 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- We have translated COVID-19 vaccine information and advice into different languages and alternate formats. Translations New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read --- Section Separator --- An information sheet about what to expect when getting the COVID-19 vaccine. This includes what things to consider, what happens after your vaccine and the side effects. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect [PDF, 150 KB] Simplified information (including illustrations) on getting your vaccination, what to expect after receiving your vaccination and COVID-19 health reminders. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what to expect – simplified version [PDF, 194 KB] A brochure covering what you need to know when getting your COVID-19 vaccine. This also covers information for after your vaccination. Getting your COVID-19 vaccine – what you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] Everything you need to know about Novavax [PDF, 321 KB] An information sheet with the potential side effects after your vaccination, when the side effects could start and what to do. Further information on reporting reactions and who to contact if you’re concerned. COVID-19 vaccine – after your vaccination [PDF, 360 KB] An information sheet about the personal information we collect as part of the vaccination process and what it's used for. COVID-19 vaccine – privacy statement [PDF, 116 KB] --- Section Separator --- A guide for health professionals and community leaders. COVID-19 vaccination: Responding to false and misleading information and scams [PDF, 759 KB] --- Section Separator --- Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Resources for the health sector — Ministry of Health (external link) NZ Vaccine Facts How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine resources Vaccine posters, videos and flyers --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 542 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 668 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB] We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. Watch all our campaign videos (external link) COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- These resources are available for community organisations and others to help share the message about COVID-19 vaccination. Getting vaccinated is the best way to protect yourself, your whānau and your community from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- We have a range of posters available to download. They can be printed in any size, in black and white or in colour. You just need to adjust your printer settings. --- Section Separator --- Download our flyers to print or share as a digital file. --- Section Separator --- Information about the COVID-19 vaccine and getting your vaccination. Your COVID-19 vaccination: Everything you need to know [PDF, 828 KB] AstraZeneca: Everything you need to know [PDF, 1 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about how the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine works to protect you and your whānau. COVID-19 vaccination: Get the facts [PDF, 726 KB] Easy to understand information about the COVID-19 vaccine, giving consent, and what to expect when you get vaccinated. Getting the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 542 KB] Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine when you are pregnant, breastfeeding or trying for a baby. Pregnancy, breastfeeding and vaccination [PDF, 488 KB] Supporting loved ones to receive the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 642 KB] Everything you need to know about boosters [PDF, 668 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 01 [JPG, 5.5 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Do it for your family 02 [JPG, 9.8 MB] COVID-19 vaccines — Don't wait to get vaccinated [JPG, 254 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated [JPG, 277 KB] --- Section Separator --- We have a range of videos for you to watch and share through your social media channels. --- Section Separator --- Watch all our campaign videos (external link) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 01 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 02 [PNG, 12 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 03 [PNG, 20 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — email signature 04 [JPG, 23 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1024px x 768px) [JPG, 198 KB] COVID-19 vaccines — It's never been easier to get vaccinated (1920px x 1080px) [JPG, 349 KB] --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine fact sheets How to talk to your friends and whānau about the COVID-19 vaccine --- Section Separator --- NZ Vaccine Facts Vaccine posters, videos and flyers Fact sheets
Home COVID-19 vaccines Get your COVID-19 vaccination Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. What you need to know Boosters Child vaccinations Vaccine side effects If you have a health condition If you are pregnant or breastfeeding Vaccine advice for disabled people --- Section Separator --- Everyone in New Zealand aged 5 or over can get a free COVID-19 vaccination. It does not matter what your visa or citizenship status is. Children under 5 cannot get vaccinated for COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Pfizer is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are 18 years of age or older and either you cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or you want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or the Novavax vaccine. You will be given the option to choose your vaccine type when you book. The AstraZeneca and Novavax vaccines are not available at all vaccination sites. Whichever vaccine you get, you will need 2 doses. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine About the Novavax vaccine | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can get a free booster if you are aged 16 or over and have completed your primary course of the vaccine. For most people, the primary course is 2 doses. You can get a Pfizer booster 6 months after completing your primary course. You can get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca booster 3 months after completing your primary course. We recommend you wait 3 months after testing positive before getting any COVID-19 vaccination. Current evidence shows your protection against infection after 2 doses slowly decreases over time. A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. Boosters lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It can show you where vaccination sites are, how soon you can get an appointment, and which vaccine types are available. Appointment availability map | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz It is free to book over the phone, and the team is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Call the COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- You will need your booking reference to reschedule or cancel an appointment online. If you cannot find your booking reference, you can reschedule or cancel over the phone. You can find your booking reference in the confirmation email or text you received when you booked. Check your inbox for an email from booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz or your phone for a text from 2328. Cancel or change your booking online | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) Call the COVID Vaccination Healthline: 0800 28 29 26
Home COVID-19 vaccines Side effects --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any of these new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is ‘skipping beats’ If you feel any of these symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor — there will be no charge for the consultation. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111, and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | health.govt.nz (external link) If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Like all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects in the days after getting your vaccination. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Most side effects do not last long, and will not stop you from having a second dose or going about your daily life. Some side effects may temporarily affect your ability to drive or use machinery. The most common reported reactions are: pain or swelling at the injection site feeling tired or fatigued headache muscle aches chills joint pain fever redness at the injection site nausea. Some side effects are more common after the second dose. Side effects of the COVID-19 vaccine are similar in young people to those seen in adults. You can: place a cold, wet cloth or ice pack on the injection site for a short time rest and drink plenty of fluids take paracetamol or ibuprofen. --- Section Separator --- There are some side effects that are more serious but rare, like a severe allergic reaction. Serious allergic reactions or anaphylaxis from the vaccine are rare. This is why people are observed for around 15 minutes post vaccination. Vaccinators are well-trained in managing these if they occur. Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, while pericarditis is inflammation of the tissue forming a sac around the heart. These conditions are usually caused by viral infections (including COVID-19), but they are also very rare and serious side effects of the Pfizer vaccine. Symptoms of myocarditis or pericarditis linked to the vaccine generally appear within a few days, and mostly within the first few weeks after having the vaccine. If you get any of these new symptoms after your vaccination, you should seek medical help, especially if these symptoms do not go away: tightness, heaviness, discomfort or pain in your chest or neck difficulty breathing or catching your breath feeling faint or dizzy or light-headed fluttering, racing or pounding heart, or feeling like it is ‘skipping beats’ If you feel any of these symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor — there will be no charge for the consultation. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 any time to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111, and make sure you tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. Blood clots are a very rare side effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It has occurred in around 1 in 100,000 people who have received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Symptoms can include: shortness of breath chest pain leg swelling pain in arms or legs severe or persistent headache blurred vision confusion or seizures (fits) abdominal pain. Very rare cases of Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) have been reported. The symptoms of this condition include rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint. Very rare cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have also been reported. GBS is a rare immune disorder that causes nerve inflammation. Symptoms may include pain, numbness and muscle weakness in the arms and legs which may progress to the chest and face. --- Section Separator --- Side effects of booster doses are like those from primary vaccine doses. These include pain, redness or swelling at the injection site, headache, nausea and feeling tired or fatigued. --- Section Separator --- If you feel any of these serious side effect symptoms in the days or weeks after the vaccine, you should see a doctor or other health professional. You can also call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 anytime to get advice. If you have an immediate concern about your safety, call 111. Tell them you have had a COVID-19 vaccination, or have or had COVID-19 so they can assess you properly. For information about uncommon and rare side effects, visit the Ministry of Health website. Uncommon and rare side effects | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have had a severe or immediate allergic reaction to any vaccine or injection in the past, tell your vaccinator when you arrive. Serious allergic reactions do happen but are extremely rare. If you have a reaction when getting the vaccine, a health worker will be there to look after you and make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- Reporting COVID-19 vaccine side effects means the safety of the Pfizer vaccine within Aotearoa New Zealand can be closely monitored. You can report your own side effects, or side effects experienced by someone else (including a child). You do not have to be certain the vaccine caused the side effects to make a report. Side effects are reported to the Centre for Adverse Reactions Monitoring (CARM). Medsafe closely monitors and releases safety reports showing this data. Report your side effects (external link) Learn more about CARM (external link) If you get a Pfizer booster, or a child in your care has had a paediatric (child) Pfizer vaccine, you may be invited by text to let us know about any side effects experienced in the days after. This is called a Post Vaccine Symptom Check. The text invite will come from the Ministry of Health, and you will be asked to reply ‘YES’, ‘NO’, or ‘STOP'. All replies are free of charge. If you want to take part, you will be sent a link to an online form. --- Section Separator --- What you need to know about the Pfizer vaccine What you need to know about the AstraZeneca vaccine COVID-19 vaccination: Your questions answered Misinformation and scams --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Vaccine passes and certificates Vaccinations and work COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- Wo rkers that are still covered by a government vaccine mandate include : Health and disability sector workers — including aged care workers Prison staff Border and MIQ workers Certain roles within the following workforces may also be captured by government vaccine mandates, if they are working in an environment where a mandate is required — for example, alongside paramedics or other health workers. NZ Police NZ Defence Force Fire and Emergency New Zealand. Workers covered by a government vaccine mandate are required to be vaccinated because they come into close contact with people who are likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. Border workers , i ncluding those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports must be vaccinated because they are likely to be exposed to new variants. COVID-19 booster vaccinations are also mandated for workforces covered by the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (Vaccinations Order). This means workers in these sectors must get a booster 6 months (183 days) after they complete their primary vaccination course. If eligible, we recommend you get your booster after 3 months. You must be 18 years or older to receive a booster dose. If you are under 18 years old and have had your primary vaccination course, you can continue to work. 8 vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for workers who fall under a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination order. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) Novavax (Nuvaxovid, NVX-CoC2373) Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) — only 1 dose is required for this vaccine. For all other vaccines, the primary course of vaccination means 2 doses. If you have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, you will need to have a second dose. You are able to get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as your second dose. Novavax is only approved as a primary course of vaccination and not as a booster dose. However, the Novavax vaccine is available as a booster on prescription from an approved health professional. Workers may be able to get an exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Depending on the type of work done, there are different exemption grounds that may apply. For example, for an exemption on medical grounds, workers will need to apply to the Ministry of Health. Exemptions for border and MIQ workers | transport.govt.nz (external link) Medical exemptions for workers who have recently recovered from COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) Exemptions for the border, health and prison workers | health.govt.nz (external link) If your employees are not covered by the vaccine mandate, you can choose if you want to require your employees to be fully vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccinations can only be used as a measure if the risk of contracting and transmitting COVID-19 at work is higher than it is in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read the guidance on Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand for advice. COVID-19 controls at work – employer vaccination requirements | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) Find out where and how to get your COVID-19 vaccination and booster dose. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Wo rkers that are still covered by a government vaccine mandate include : Health and disability sector workers — including aged care workers Prison staff Border and MIQ workers Certain roles within the following workforces may also be captured by government vaccine mandates, if they are working in an environment where a mandate is required — for example, alongside paramedics or other health workers. NZ Police NZ Defence Force Fire and Emergency New Zealand. Workers covered by a government vaccine mandate are required to be vaccinated because they come into close contact with people who are likely to get seriously ill if they get COVID-19. Border workers , i ncluding those at MIQ, airports and maritime ports must be vaccinated because they are likely to be exposed to new variants. COVID-19 booster vaccinations are also mandated for workforces covered by the COVID-19 Public Health Response (Vaccinations) Order 2021 (Vaccinations Order). This means workers in these sectors must get a booster 6 months (183 days) after they complete their primary vaccination course. If eligible, we recommend you get your booster after 3 months. You must be 18 years or older to receive a booster dose. If you are under 18 years old and have had your primary vaccination course, you can continue to work. --- Section Separator --- 8 vaccines commonly administered overseas are recognised for workers who fall under a mandatory COVID-19 vaccination order. The recognised vaccines are: Pfizer/BioNTech AstraZeneca (Oxford) AstraZeneca/Covishield (Serum Institute of India) Moderna Sinopharm Sinovac (CoronaVac) Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) Novavax (Nuvaxovid, NVX-CoC2373) Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) — only 1 dose is required for this vaccine. For all other vaccines, the primary course of vaccination means 2 doses. If you have had 1 dose of any of the other vaccines, you will need to have a second dose. You are able to get a Pfizer or AstraZeneca vaccine as your second dose. Novavax is only approved as a primary course of vaccination and not as a booster dose. However, the Novavax vaccine is available as a booster on prescription from an approved health professional. --- Section Separator --- Workers may be able to get an exemption from being vaccinated against COVID-19. Depending on the type of work done, there are different exemption grounds that may apply. For example, for an exemption on medical grounds, workers will need to apply to the Ministry of Health. Exemptions for border and MIQ workers | transport.govt.nz (external link) Medical exemptions for workers who have recently recovered from COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) Exemptions for the border, health and prison workers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If your employees are not covered by the vaccine mandate, you can choose if you want to require your employees to be fully vaccinated as a condition of their employment. Employers must carry out a health and safety risk assessment and consider all other public health measures they can use to reduce the risk of COVID-19 in their workplace. Vaccinations can only be used as a measure if the risk of contracting and transmitting COVID-19 at work is higher than it is in the community. Before you decide if vaccination requirements are appropriate for your workplace, we encourage you to read the guidance on Employment New Zealand and WorkSafe New Zealand for advice. COVID-19 controls at work – employer vaccination requirements | worksafe.govt.nz (external link) Vaccines and the workplace | employment.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find out where and how to get your COVID-19 vaccination and booster dose. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Vaccine passes and certificates Vaccinations and work COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine passes and certificates Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. --- Section Separator --- There are 3 official records you can use as proof of your vaccination status. They are My Vaccine Pass, an International Travel Vaccination Certificate, and your COVID-19 vaccination record. You can use My Covid Record to access your COVID-19 vaccination records, view your COVID-19 test results, and report a rapid antigen test (RAT) result. --- Section Separator --- There are 3 official records you can use as proof of your vaccination status. They are My Vaccine Pass, an International Travel Vaccination Certificate, and your COVID-19 vaccination record. You can use My Covid Record to access your COVID-19 vaccination records, view your COVID-19 test results, and report a rapid antigen test (RAT) result.
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine passes and certificates How to use My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: driver licence passport birth certificate (from any year) or citizenship certificate. Or an Australian: passport birth certificate. My Covid Record (external link) If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, need help with My Covid Record, or have a query about your COVID-19 records, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Phone: 0800 222 478 Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Your guide to signing up and using My Covid Record [PDF, 301 KB] You can sign up for My Covid Record on behalf of someone else, if you have their permission. They will need their own unique email address. If they do not have an email address, call 0800 222 478 for help. It will help to have their NHI number ready. We take your privacy seriously. Only you can access your secure My Covid Record. Your account must be verified with a valid form of identification so we know it is actually you. By keeping your account safe, no one else will be able to access your records. You can use My Covid Record to: get proof of your vaccination status see the results of any PCR tests taken in the last 90 days report a rapid antigen test (RAT) result for you or someone else. You can request 3 free official records of your COVID-19 vaccination status through My Covid Record. My Vaccine Pass — which you can use as proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. My Vaccine Pass is a QR code which you can add to a digital wallet, like your phone. My Vaccine Record — which has more detailed information about your COVID-19 vaccination recording including batch numbers, dose number, vaccine type and any overseas vaccinations that have been added to your health record. International Travel Vaccination Certificate — which you can use to travel overseas. How to get proof of your vaccination status through My Covid Record You can see your recent PCR test results on My Covid Record. When you log into your account, you will be able to view all the test results you have had in the last 90 days. If you have tested for COVID-19 using your own RAT, you can report it online using My Covid Record. You can also report a RAT on behalf of someone else. You can only report one RAT per person in a 12 hour period. How to use My Covid Record to report your RAT results Accessing your NHI number as a QR code will make visiting places like COVID-19 testing sites quick and easy, as it allows us to scan the QR code to identify you. --- Section Separator --- Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. You will need to provide one of the following documents so we can confirm your identity. A New Zealand: driver licence passport birth certificate (from any year) or citizenship certificate. Or an Australian: passport birth certificate. My Covid Record (external link) If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, need help with My Covid Record, or have a query about your COVID-19 records, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Phone: 0800 222 478 Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Your guide to signing up and using My Covid Record [PDF, 301 KB] You can sign up for My Covid Record on behalf of someone else, if you have their permission. They will need their own unique email address. If they do not have an email address, call 0800 222 478 for help. It will help to have their NHI number ready. We take your privacy seriously. Only you can access your secure My Covid Record. Your account must be verified with a valid form of identification so we know it is actually you. By keeping your account safe, no one else will be able to access your records. --- Section Separator --- You can use My Covid Record to: get proof of your vaccination status see the results of any PCR tests taken in the last 90 days report a rapid antigen test (RAT) result for you or someone else. --- Section Separator --- You can request 3 free official records of your COVID-19 vaccination status through My Covid Record. My Vaccine Pass — which you can use as proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status for use within Aotearoa New Zealand. My Vaccine Pass is a QR code which you can add to a digital wallet, like your phone. My Vaccine Record — which has more detailed information about your COVID-19 vaccination recording including batch numbers, dose number, vaccine type and any overseas vaccinations that have been added to your health record. International Travel Vaccination Certificate — which you can use to travel overseas. How to get proof of your vaccination status through My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- You can see your recent PCR test results on My Covid Record. When you log into your account, you will be able to view all the test results you have had in the last 90 days. If you have tested for COVID-19 using your own RAT, you can report it online using My Covid Record. You can also report a RAT on behalf of someone else. You can only report one RAT per person in a 12 hour period. How to use My Covid Record to report your RAT results --- Section Separator --- Accessing your NHI number as a QR code will make visiting places like COVID-19 testing sites quick and easy, as it allows us to scan the QR code to identify you. --- Section Separator --- Proof of your vaccination status How to use My Covid Record
Home COVID-19 vaccines Vaccine passes and certificates Proof of your vaccination status --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to show proof of your vaccinations: My Vaccine Pass — you can use this as proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status within Aotearoa New Zealand. My Vaccine Pass is a QR code which you can add to a digital wallet on your phone. International Travel Vaccination Certificate — you can use this as proof for travel overseas. Your COVID-19 vaccination record — this has more detailed information about your COVID-19 vaccinations, and can be used as proof for work and alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. If you are travelling overseas and you need to provide proof of your vaccination status, you will need an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of a COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can request one. The details on your International Travel Vaccination Certificate must match your passport. You can review your personal details when you request the certificate. These certificates comply with EU Digital COVID Certificate standards. You will also need to meet all immigration and entry requirements for the country you are travelling to, for example some countries may also require proof of a negative pre-departure test. Before travelling, check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Your International Travel Vaccination Certificate will have a QR code that will be scanned when you are travelling. It will include details of the COVID-19 vaccinations you have had administered in New Zealand. You can save this certificate on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. This certificate is valid for 12 months. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate We also recommend downloading a copy of your vaccination records that you can use alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. About My Vaccine Record My Vaccine Pass is a domestic record of COVID-19 vaccinations that you might be asked to show within New Zealand. In April 2022 the legal requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Passes was removed. Some businesses may voluntarily keep My Vaccine Pass requirements as a condition of entry. For this reason, it is a good idea to have an up-to-date My Vaccine Pass handy in case you are asked for it. An updated My Vaccine Pass is available for anyone aged 12 and over who is up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccinations, as well as those with a temporary medical exemption. The updated My Vaccine Pass will have a slightly different look to the current version with a different colour and a few updates to design. It will still have a QR code. New My Vaccine Passes will be valid for 6 months. You can request a new pass for yourself or someone else: through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 28 29 26 by visiting a participating vaccination site. You can get a temporary My Vaccine Pass if: Businesses can choose to require people to show their My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry. It is up to each business to decide what is appropriate, taking into account the health and safety of their workers and customers. Businesses can do this as long as: they do not breach any contractual restrictions, for example in a lease or under a franchise agreement they do not ask for My Vaccine Pass in settings that are currently prohibited from doing so, for example supermarkets, pharmacies, public transport and education services. This is to ensure everyone can continue to access these key services. Businesses can also continue to use the NZ Pass Verifier app to check My Vaccine Passes. Requiring My Vaccine Pass for entry | business.govt.nz (external link) More information about NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) Businesses cannot ask children under 12 years and 3 months for a My Vaccine Pass. You can request a copy of your COVID-19 vaccination record online through My Covid Record. Your vaccination record includes: batch numbers dose number vaccine type any overseas vaccinations you have requested be added to your health record. It can be used: as evidence of your vaccinations if required by an employer – including under the New Zealand vaccine mandate alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your vaccination record cannot be used instead of a My Vaccine Pass or an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass, International Travel Vaccination Certificate or record of your COVID-19 vaccinations. online through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 28 29 26 , option 4 (8am to 8pm, 7 days) in person at a participating vaccination site. How to get My Vaccine Passes for a group 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the 'Passes and certificates' section, select 'Request pass or certificate'. 3.The 'Select who this pass or certificate is for' will open. Select either 'Myself' or 'Someone else'. 4. The 'Select a pass or certificate' option will appear. Select 'My Vaccine Pass' or 'International Travel Vaccination Certificate'. 5. You will then be prompted to enter details including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your My Vaccine Pass by email within 24 hours. 1.Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. Select 'Get a copy of your vaccinations'. 3. You will then be prompted to enter your email address. Your Vaccine Record will be emailed to you within 24 hours. How to use My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to show proof of your vaccinations: My Vaccine Pass — you can use this as proof of your COVID-19 vaccination status within Aotearoa New Zealand. My Vaccine Pass is a QR code which you can add to a digital wallet on your phone. International Travel Vaccination Certificate — you can use this as proof for travel overseas. Your COVID-19 vaccination record — this has more detailed information about your COVID-19 vaccinations, and can be used as proof for work and alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling overseas and you need to provide proof of your vaccination status, you will need an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Anyone 5 years and over who has had any dose of a COVID-19 vaccine administered in New Zealand can request one. The details on your International Travel Vaccination Certificate must match your passport. You can review your personal details when you request the certificate. These certificates comply with EU Digital COVID Certificate standards. You will also need to meet all immigration and entry requirements for the country you are travelling to, for example some countries may also require proof of a negative pre-departure test. Before travelling, check the requirements of the country you are travelling to. Your International Travel Vaccination Certificate will have a QR code that will be scanned when you are travelling. It will include details of the COVID-19 vaccinations you have had administered in New Zealand. You can save this certificate on a digital device, like your phone, or print a physical copy. This certificate is valid for 12 months. How to get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate We also recommend downloading a copy of your vaccination records that you can use alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. About My Vaccine Record --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass is a domestic record of COVID-19 vaccinations that you might be asked to show within New Zealand. In April 2022 the legal requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Passes was removed. Some businesses may voluntarily keep My Vaccine Pass requirements as a condition of entry. For this reason, it is a good idea to have an up-to-date My Vaccine Pass handy in case you are asked for it. An updated My Vaccine Pass is available for anyone aged 12 and over who is up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccinations, as well as those with a temporary medical exemption. The updated My Vaccine Pass will have a slightly different look to the current version with a different colour and a few updates to design. It will still have a QR code. New My Vaccine Passes will be valid for 6 months. You can request a new pass for yourself or someone else: through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 28 29 26 by visiting a participating vaccination site. You can get a temporary My Vaccine Pass if: --- Section Separator --- Businesses can choose to require people to show their My Vaccine Pass as a condition of entry. It is up to each business to decide what is appropriate, taking into account the health and safety of their workers and customers. Businesses can do this as long as: they do not breach any contractual restrictions, for example in a lease or under a franchise agreement they do not ask for My Vaccine Pass in settings that are currently prohibited from doing so, for example supermarkets, pharmacies, public transport and education services. This is to ensure everyone can continue to access these key services. Businesses can also continue to use the NZ Pass Verifier app to check My Vaccine Passes. Requiring My Vaccine Pass for entry | business.govt.nz (external link) More information about NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) Businesses cannot ask children under 12 years and 3 months for a My Vaccine Pass. --- Section Separator --- You can request a copy of your COVID-19 vaccination record online through My Covid Record. Your vaccination record includes: batch numbers dose number vaccine type any overseas vaccinations you have requested be added to your health record. It can be used: as evidence of your vaccinations if required by an employer – including under the New Zealand vaccine mandate alongside your International Travel Vaccination Certificate. Your vaccination record cannot be used instead of a My Vaccine Pass or an International Travel Vaccination Certificate. --- Section Separator --- There are 3 ways to get your My Vaccine Pass, International Travel Vaccination Certificate or record of your COVID-19 vaccinations. online through My Covid Record (external link) by calling 0800 28 29 26 , option 4 (8am to 8pm, 7 days) in person at a participating vaccination site. How to get My Vaccine Passes for a group 1. Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. In the 'Passes and certificates' section, select 'Request pass or certificate'. 3.The 'Select who this pass or certificate is for' will open. Select either 'Myself' or 'Someone else'. 4. The 'Select a pass or certificate' option will appear. Select 'My Vaccine Pass' or 'International Travel Vaccination Certificate'. 5. You will then be prompted to enter details including the full name and date of birth of the person who the pass is for and their NHI number. 6. You should receive your My Vaccine Pass by email within 24 hours. 1.Log in to My Covid Record (external link) 2. Select 'Get a copy of your vaccinations'. 3. You will then be prompted to enter your email address. Your Vaccine Record will be emailed to you within 24 hours. How to use My Covid Record --- Section Separator --- Proof of your vaccination status How to use My Covid Record
Home COVID-19 vaccines What to expect when you get your vaccination --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. The Pfizer vaccine is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are aged 18 or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine About the Novavax vaccine | health.govt.nz (external link) Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects Whether you get the Pfizer, AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection. The standard gap between doses is: 3 weeks or more for the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines 4 weeks or more for the AstraZeneca vaccine. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap is 8 weeks or more between doses. Learn more about getting your second dose Clinical trials found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection and the AstraZeneca vaccine 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face mask. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Healthy habits --- Section Separator --- A healthcare worker will talk you through what is going to happen. You will be asked: for your name, date of birth and physical address so we can verify this in the COVID Immunisation Register (you do not need to show identification) to give your verbal consent to receive the vaccine — this is standard practice for any vaccination. The vaccine and your privacy — Ministry of Health (external link) --- Section Separator --- A fully trained vaccinator will give you the vaccine in your upper arm. You will need to stay for at least 15 minutes after your vaccination so we can make sure you are okay. --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine is the preferred COVID-19 vaccine for use in New Zealand. If you are aged 18 or over and either cannot get the Pfizer vaccine or want a different option, you can get the AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine. About the Pfizer vaccine About the AstraZeneca vaccine About the Novavax vaccine | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Being fully vaccinated gives you a high degree of protection against Delta infection, and an even higher degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalisation and death. Evidence currently shows the effectiveness of 2 doses of the Pfizer vaccine against illness due to Delta infection is about 88%, and the protection against hospitalisation due to Delta infection about 96%. COVID-19: About the Delta variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Data is emerging that a booster dose of the Pfizer vaccine provides better protection than a 2-dose course against the Omicron variant. While 2 doses provide some degree of protection against severe disease from Omicron, a booster is likely to offer greater protection against transmitting COVID-19 to others, and reduce the chance of more serious infections. Get your vaccine booster COVID-19: About the Omicron variant | health.govt.nz (external link) Watch NZ Vaccine Facts: Do vaccines work when a virus changes? (external link) --- Section Separator --- As with all medicines, you might experience some mild side effects. This is common, and a sign that your body is learning to fight the virus. Side effects --- Section Separator --- Whether you get the Pfizer, AstraZeneca or Novavax vaccine, it is important to get 2 doses for the best protection. The standard gap between doses is: 3 weeks or more for the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines 4 weeks or more for the AstraZeneca vaccine. For children aged 5 to 11, the recommended gap is 8 weeks or more between doses. Learn more about getting your second dose --- Section Separator --- Clinical trials found that the Pfizer vaccine gave 95% protection and the AstraZeneca vaccine 81% protection against the symptoms of COVID-19. This means that once you are fully vaccinated, you are far less likely to fall seriously ill and less likely to transmit the virus to others. To further reduce the risk of catching and transmitting the virus, it is important to follow these simple steps to slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and community: Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands. Sneeze and cough into your elbow. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Clean or disinfect shared surfaces often. Wear a face mask. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, stay home and call your doctor or Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 . Healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Get your COVID-19 vaccination What to expect when you get your vaccination Side effects Vaccine passes and certificates Vaccinations and work COVID-19 vaccine facts and advice COVID-19 vaccine resources
Home International travel Information about travelling to, leaving and transiting through New Zealand. What you need to know Travel to New Zealand Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Complete your traveller declaration Get your International Travel Vaccination Certificate If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. New Zealand's borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. Information for travellers transiting through New Zealand. Advice for New Zealanders and residents in New Zealand who want to travel overseas. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand’s borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. New Zealand's borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. Information for travellers transiting through New Zealand. Advice for New Zealanders and residents in New Zealand who want to travel overseas. Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World is the Government's plan to safely re-open our borders. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home International travel How to enter New Zealand Travel with Australia Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Before you travel, read our step-by-step guide to help you get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand, and find out what to expect at the airport and after you arrive in New Zealand. Preparing to travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you want to travel from Australia, you must be eligible to enter New Zealand. Vaccinated Australian citizens and permanent residents can now enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. If you are not a New Zealand or Australian citizen or resident, check to see if you can travel. Who can travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) New Zealand and Australian citizens do not need one. Apply for an NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Read Immigration NZ's guidance for Australian citizens and permanent residents. Advice for Australian citizens and permanent residents who want to enter New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. This includes people who begin their journey in New Zealand to travel to Australia, and then return to New Zealand — no matter how long you are in Australia for. You need a test even if you have been vaccinated for COVID-19, have recently recovered from  COVID-19 or if you are self-testing on arrival. Plan when to get your test and results as they must be: no more than 24 hours before you depart if you have a supervised RAT or supervised LAMP test, or no more than 48 hours before you depart if you have a PCR test. If you are making a short visit to Australia, this may mean you have to get a test soon after you arrive in Australia. If your pre-departure test documentation does not contain the required information, or is not in the required format, you may be prevented from boarding your flight to New Zealand. Pre-departure testing requirements to enter New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You do not need to be vaccinated. You can enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival. How to travel to New Zealand when you are self-testing after arrival If you are not a New Zealand citizen or resident and you are aged 17 years or over, you must be vaccinated with approved vaccines to enter New Zealand. You will need to provide proof of your vaccination status. Some people are exempt from the vaccination requirements. Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand If you do not meet the vaccination requirements, you will not be able to enter New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. You can start your declaration 28 days before you travel. You will need to provide: your passport details flight information proof of vaccination — if you are not a New Zealand citizen or resident, or an Australian citizen who lives in New Zealand proof of a negative pre-departure test (if you need one) your travel history for the last 14 days your contact details in New Zealand emergency contact details. You should submit your declaration as soon as you have your pre-departure test result, so there is time to verify and review your documents before your flight. You need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- You will be given a welcome pack at Biosecurity once you have gone through Customs. Your welcome pack has: rapid antigen test (RAT) kits a guide to testing. Take your RAT test as instructed on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. You must report your RATs results — even if they are negative. You will receive an email with details on how to report your RATs results into the New Zealand health system. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- All visa holders who are fully vaccinated for international travel purposes can travel to Australia without a travel exemption. Unvaccinated visa holders will still need to be in an exempt category or hold an individual travel exemption to enter Australia. Everyone travelling to Australia by air must complete the Digital Passenger Declaration. Travelling to Australia | australia.gov.au (external link) More information about the Digital Passenger Declaration (external link)
Home International travel How to enter New Zealand Travel with the Pacific Islands --- Section Separator --- The Government of Niue has announced that quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue will start from 27 June 2022. Travelling from New Zealand to Niue Before you travel, read our step-by-step guide to help you get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand, and find out what to expect at the airport and after you arrive in New Zealand. Preparing to travel to New Zealand New Zealand's borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. People coming from most Pacific countries need to be eligible to travel here. Eligible travellers include: New Zealand citizens or residents Australian citizens or permanent residents people who have a border exception, or people who are exempt from the border restrictions people on a visitor visa New Zealand and Australian citizens do not need one. Apply for an NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You can now apply for a visitor visa to travel to New Zealand from a Pacific Island Forum country. The full list of Pacific Island forum countries is available on the Immigration NZ website. Travelling from the Pacific islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are aged 17 years or over, and you are not a New Zealand citizen or resident, or an Australian citizen who lives in New Zealand — you must be vaccinated with an approved vaccine to enter New Zealand. Some airlines may have additional vaccination requirements. Check with your airline before you fly. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand Use this tool to find out if you need a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. If you are travelling from a country where you do not need to self-test on arrival in New Zealand, you must meet the following conditions to travel to New Zealand: You must have been in your country of origin or another Pacific country from which travellers to New Zealand are not required to self-test on arrival, including New Zealand, for at least 14 days before you travel. If this is not possible, you will be required to self-test for COVID-19 when you arrive. If you transit any other country and go landside on your way to New Zealand, you will be required to meet the public health requirements for travellers from that country. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days, have no COVID-19 symptoms, and are not waiting for a COVID-19 test result. All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. You can start your declaration 28 days before you travel. You will need to provide: your passport details flight information proof of vaccination — if you are required to be vaccinated proof of a negative pre-departure test (if you need one) your travel history for the last 14 days your contact details in New Zealand emergency contact details. You should submit your declaration as soon as you have your pre-departure test result, so there is time to verify and review your documents before your flight. You will need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. If you do not need to get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand, select that you are exempt in the pre-departure test section of the Traveller Declaration. This will allow you to have your Traveller Pass issued without uploading pre-departure testing documentation. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) If you are travelling from a country where you do not need to self-test on arrival in New Zealand, you should take a direct flight to New Zealand. If there are no direct flights, you should transit through another Pacific country from which travellers to New Zealand are not required to self-test on arrival. If this is not possible, you will be required to self-test for COVID-19 when you arrive. You must also: have been in your country of origin or another Pacific country from which travellers to New Zealand are not required to self-test on arrival , including New Zealand, for at least 14 days before you travel meet vaccination requirements, and meet all the health requirements for New Zealand arrivals when you get here. Most travellers must take 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) after they arrive in New Zealand. Travellers arriving from Niue do not need to self-test on arrival if they have taken a direct flight to New Zealand. If you are required to self-test on arrival, you will be given a welcome pack at Biosecurity once you have gone through Customs. Your welcome pack has: rapid antigen test (RAT) kits a guide to testing. Take your RAT test as instructed on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. You must report your RATs results — even if they are negative. You will receive an email with details on how to report your RATs results into the New Zealand health system. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand If you want to travel to the Pacific Islands from New Zealand, you will need to: check the immigration requirements of your destination check you meet any vaccination or pre-departure testing requirements If you are unsure if you can travel, contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country you are travelling to. Foreign embassies in New Zealand | mfat.govt.nz (external link) We also encourage you to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice if you are leaving New Zealand You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Normal immigration rules still apply. Check what you need to do to travel to the Cook Islands (external link) The Government of Niue has announced that quarantine-free travel (QFT) from New Zealand to Niue will start from Monday 27 June 2022, along with the resumption of weekly passenger flights. Until then, the Government of Niue must approve all people who want to travel there. You can find more information about the entry requirements for Niue — including vaccination requirements, pre-departure testing, and COVID-19 testing on arrival — on the Niue Government website, or by emailing Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu More information about quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue (external link) Information about Niue's COVID-19 response (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Government of Niue has announced that quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue will start from 27 June 2022. Travelling from New Zealand to Niue --- Section Separator --- Before you travel, read our step-by-step guide to help you get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand, and find out what to expect at the airport and after you arrive in New Zealand. Preparing to travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. People coming from most Pacific countries need to be eligible to travel here. Eligible travellers include: New Zealand citizens or residents Australian citizens or permanent residents people who have a border exception, or people who are exempt from the border restrictions people on a visitor visa New Zealand and Australian citizens do not need one. Apply for an NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You can now apply for a visitor visa to travel to New Zealand from a Pacific Island Forum country. The full list of Pacific Island forum countries is available on the Immigration NZ website. Travelling from the Pacific islands | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are aged 17 years or over, and you are not a New Zealand citizen or resident, or an Australian citizen who lives in New Zealand — you must be vaccinated with an approved vaccine to enter New Zealand. Some airlines may have additional vaccination requirements. Check with your airline before you fly. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Use this tool to find out if you need a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling from a country where you do not need to self-test on arrival in New Zealand, you must meet the following conditions to travel to New Zealand: You must have been in your country of origin or another Pacific country from which travellers to New Zealand are not required to self-test on arrival, including New Zealand, for at least 14 days before you travel. If this is not possible, you will be required to self-test for COVID-19 when you arrive. If you transit any other country and go landside on your way to New Zealand, you will be required to meet the public health requirements for travellers from that country. You have not had contact with a confirmed COVID-19 case within the past 14 days, have no COVID-19 symptoms, and are not waiting for a COVID-19 test result. --- Section Separator --- All travellers must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration before travelling to New Zealand and be issued a New Zealand Traveller Pass. You can start your declaration 28 days before you travel. You will need to provide: your passport details flight information proof of vaccination — if you are required to be vaccinated proof of a negative pre-departure test (if you need one) your travel history for the last 14 days your contact details in New Zealand emergency contact details. You should submit your declaration as soon as you have your pre-departure test result, so there is time to verify and review your documents before your flight. You will need to show your Traveller Pass when you check-in at the airport, and to Customs when you arrive in New Zealand. It can be printed out or saved on your mobile device. If you do not need to get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand, select that you are exempt in the pre-departure test section of the Traveller Declaration. This will allow you to have your Traveller Pass issued without uploading pre-departure testing documentation. Complete your traveller declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are travelling from a country where you do not need to self-test on arrival in New Zealand, you should take a direct flight to New Zealand. If there are no direct flights, you should transit through another Pacific country from which travellers to New Zealand are not required to self-test on arrival. If this is not possible, you will be required to self-test for COVID-19 when you arrive. You must also: have been in your country of origin or another Pacific country from which travellers to New Zealand are not required to self-test on arrival , including New Zealand, for at least 14 days before you travel meet vaccination requirements, and meet all the health requirements for New Zealand arrivals when you get here. --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must take 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) after they arrive in New Zealand. Travellers arriving from Niue do not need to self-test on arrival if they have taken a direct flight to New Zealand. If you are required to self-test on arrival, you will be given a welcome pack at Biosecurity once you have gone through Customs. Your welcome pack has: rapid antigen test (RAT) kits a guide to testing. Take your RAT test as instructed on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. You must report your RATs results — even if they are negative. You will receive an email with details on how to report your RATs results into the New Zealand health system. Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you want to travel to the Pacific Islands from New Zealand, you will need to: check the immigration requirements of your destination check you meet any vaccination or pre-departure testing requirements If you are unsure if you can travel, contact the embassy, high commission or consulate of the country you are travelling to. Foreign embassies in New Zealand | mfat.govt.nz (external link) We also encourage you to register with SafeTravel. If you register, you will receive notification of any changes made to travel advice. Register your details with SafeTravel (external link) Advice if you are leaving New Zealand You can travel between New Zealand and the Cook Islands without having to go into managed isolation or self-isolation when you arrive. This is called quarantine-free travel. Normal immigration rules still apply. Check what you need to do to travel to the Cook Islands (external link) The Government of Niue has announced that quarantine-free travel (QFT) from New Zealand to Niue will start from Monday 27 June 2022, along with the resumption of weekly passenger flights. Until then, the Government of Niue must approve all people who want to travel there. You can find more information about the entry requirements for Niue — including vaccination requirements, pre-departure testing, and COVID-19 testing on arrival — on the Niue Government website, or by emailing Niue.SecGov@mail.gov.nu More information about quarantine-free travel from New Zealand to Niue (external link) Information about Niue's COVID-19 response (external link) --- Section Separator --- Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Travelling to New Zealand from outside of Australia and the Pacific Islands
Home International travel Transit through New Zealand --- Section Separator --- If you are transiting New Zealand, you must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. This applies even if you are staying airside and you do not go through Customs. Complete the traveller declaration (external link) If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You can transit New Zealand to travel to Australia. To be eligible to transit New Zealand to Australia, you must meet all requirements for entry to Australia. Check if you: need proof of your vaccination status meet the entry requirements of the state or territory you are travelling to. It is your responsibility to ensure that you comply with Australian entry requirements. Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, resident or Australian citizen who normally lives in New Zealand, you must be vaccinated with approved vaccines. This applies even though you are staying airside and you do not go through Customs. Travellers aged 16 years or under do not need to be vaccinated. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you are transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you are travelling though and your final destination. You will not be able to transit New Zealand if you do not meet all requirements. --- Section Separator --- If you are transiting New Zealand, you must complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. This applies even if you are staying airside and you do not go through Customs. Complete the traveller declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you pass through New Zealand on your way to another country and you do not plan to stay, you are a transit passenger. You can only transit New Zealand through Auckland International Airport, where you must stay in the transit area of the airport. You cannot apply to enter New Zealand. You can remain in transit for up to 24 hours. If you need to stay longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger and you need to apply to enter New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may need a New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA) or transit visa to transit New Zealand. Who can transit New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) You can transit New Zealand to travel to Australia. To be eligible to transit New Zealand to Australia, you must meet all requirements for entry to Australia. Check if you: need proof of your vaccination status meet the entry requirements of the state or territory you are travelling to. It is your responsibility to ensure that you comply with Australian entry requirements. Only travellers from some countries are allowed to transit New Zealand to China. Who can transit New Zealand to China | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are entering New Zealand for longer than 24 hours, you are not a transit passenger. You must have a valid visa that permits your entry into New Zealand. New Zealand border entry requirements | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you are transiting New Zealand and you are not a New Zealand citizen, resident or Australian citizen who normally lives in New Zealand, you must be vaccinated with approved vaccines. This applies even though you are staying airside and you do not go through Customs. Travellers aged 16 years or under do not need to be vaccinated. Proof of vaccination for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You do not need to get a pre-departure test if you are transiting New Zealand. However, you will likely need a pre-departure test for your final destination and other countries on your journey. You may also need to meet health requirements at your final destination. It is your responsibility to make sure you understand the requirements of the countries you are travelling though and your final destination. You will not be able to transit New Zealand if you do not meet all requirements. --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand How to enter New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel from New Zealand Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World
Home International travel Travel from New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Your destination, transit location and transport operators may have their own testing and vaccination requirements. Your may not be allowed to travel if you: have COVID-19 symptoms do not meet any vaccination requirements do not meet the health requirements of your destination. Before you travel, check the travel advice for your destination and any transit locations to learn about their entry and exit requirements. If you are unsure, contact your airline, travel agent or the relevant government department in the country you are visiting. Check the official website of the country you wish to enter for information about any COVID-19 restrictions. Rules and restrictions can change quickly, so make sure you regularly check local health advice for the country you are travelling to. There are some simple things you can do to keep you and your whānau safe while you are overseas. Wear a face mask if you are indoors in crowded places. Wash and sanitise your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Try to meet outdoors where there is better ventilation. Make sure you have a plan if you or someone you are travelling with gets COVID-19 while overseas. If you test positive for COVID-19, you may have to pay for quarantine or self-isolate for a period of time. Be prepared for the possibility you may be in your destination longer than planned. If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. Check what you need to do before you enter New Zealand. Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands How to enter New Zealand if you are travelling from Asia, North America, South America, Europe or Africa --- Section Separator --- Your destination, transit location and transport operators may have their own testing and vaccination requirements. Your may not be allowed to travel if you: have COVID-19 symptoms do not meet any vaccination requirements do not meet the health requirements of your destination. Before you travel, check the travel advice for your destination and any transit locations to learn about their entry and exit requirements. If you are unsure, contact your airline, travel agent or the relevant government department in the country you are visiting. --- Section Separator --- Check the official website of the country you wish to enter for information about any COVID-19 restrictions. Rules and restrictions can change quickly, so make sure you regularly check local health advice for the country you are travelling to. There are some simple things you can do to keep you and your whānau safe while you are overseas. Wear a face mask if you are indoors in crowded places. Wash and sanitise your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Try to meet outdoors where there is better ventilation. Make sure you have a plan if you or someone you are travelling with gets COVID-19 while overseas. If you test positive for COVID-19, you may have to pay for quarantine or self-isolate for a period of time. Be prepared for the possibility you may be in your destination longer than planned. If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Check what you need to do before you enter New Zealand. Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands How to enter New Zealand if you are travelling from Asia, North America, South America, Europe or Africa --- Section Separator --- Travel to New Zealand How to enter New Zealand Transit through New Zealand Travel from New Zealand Reconnecting New Zealanders to the World
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand New Zealand’s borders are reopening in stages throughout 2022. What you need to know Travel with Australia Travel with the Pacific Islands Transiting New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Over 2022, New Zealand's borders are reopening to allow more travellers to enter New Zealand. Use our step-by-step guide to help you get the right documentation you need to enter New Zealand, and find out what to expect at the airport and after you arrive in New Zealand. Most travellers must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- All travellers must complete the traveller declaration before travelling to New Zealand. Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 test result to enter New Zealand. Find out about our pre-departure requirements. Eligible travellers must do 2 rapid antigen tests after arriving in New Zealand. Find out about testing when you arrive. --- Section Separator --- Information on travelling between Australia and New Zealand. Travellers from some Pacific Islands do not need a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand or self-test on arrival. Information on how to enter New Zealand if you are travelling from Asia, Africa, Europe, North America or South America. --- Section Separator --- If you are a New Zealand citizen abroad you can get emergency consular assistance. You can access support for situations like lost or stolen passports, death, health issues and law infringements. New Zealand cannot influence or guarantee another country or airline’s entry, exit or transit requirements. We also cannot help you book a commercial flight. Get emergency consular help by calling: +64 99 20 20 20 if you are outside New Zealand 0800 30 10 30 if you are in New Zealand. More help from SafeTravel (external link)
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Most travellers must have a negative COVID-19 test to enter New Zealand. Find out more about New Zealand's pre-departure testing requirements. --- Section Separator --- The Government has confirmed they expect to remove pre-departure testing requirements no later than 31 July 2022. We recommend you check this page at least a week before your international flight to New Zealand, in case testing requirements have changed. --- Section Separator --- 1. Depending on which country you are travelling from, you may need to get a pre-departure test. Pre-departure testing requirements apply even if you are vaccinated. Check if you need a pre-departure test 2. Some people do not need to get a pre-departure test. Who does not need a pre-departure test 3. Make sure you know what type of test you can get and when to get it. Types of pre-departure tests 4. Find a testing provider. Your test results must meet New Zealand Government standards. What your test results should include 5. If you have recently had COVID-19, you still need a pre-departure test. You will also need to get a medical certificate to confirm you are no longer infectious. Advice if you have recently recovered from COVID-19 6. Upload your test results to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. Complete the Traveller Declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can use our tool to find out if you need a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. If you are stopping over for more than 72 hours in another country on your way to New Zealand, you will need to do a pre-departure test for New Zealand there and complete the New Zealand Traveller Declaration. Make sure you check the entry requirements for any countries you are stopping over in. --- Section Separator --- Your test results must meet NZ Government standards. Your test results may not be accepted if you do not have the right documentation, or if you have not taken your test within the required timeframe. Approved pre-departure tests are: a PCR test taken a maximum of 48 hours before your first international flight to New Zealand a supervised rapid antigen test (RAT) or loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) test taken a maximum of 24 hours before your first international flight to New Zealand. More information about testing and documentation requirements
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Testing and documentation requirements --- Section Separator --- Use our tool to find out if you need to get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. There are very few exceptions. Pre-departure testing requirements currently apply until 31 July 2022. The Government has confirmed it expects to remove pre-departure testing requirements no later than 31 July 2022. Check if you need a pre-departure test Most travellers entering New Zealand must provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 result from one of these tests. You must get a test even if you are self-testing on arrival. You must get a PCR test a maximum of 48 hours before your first international flight to New Zealand. You must get a supervised rapid antigen test (RAT) a maximum of 24 hours before your first international flight to New Zealand. You must get a supervised loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) a maximum of 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand. RAT and LAMP tests must be supervised — this means the results must be verified by a health professional such as a nurse or pharmacist. You can also use a telehealth service. You must have proof of your negative pre-departure test. You will need this to complete your New Zealand Traveller Declaration. Your pre-departure test documentation must meet New Zealand Government standards. The results must be: in English, o r accompanied by a certified translation into English in paper or digital form — a text message will only be accepted if it includes an image of the laboratory result form. Self-administered tests which are not supervised a health professional, or free tests from community testing stations may not meet the Government standard. We recommend you check before getting tested. your full name your date of birth or passport number type of test date and time of the test test result — confirming it was negative either the name of the health professional (for example, a doctor, nurse, or pharmacist) who supervised the test, including a letterhead or stamp confirming their name, occupation and employer or the name of the pharmacy, laboratory, healthcare entity, telehealth service, community-based or airport-based testing station that supervised the test. This form guides health professionals supervising your RAT or LAMP test to provide the correct information required for your traveller declaration. It helps to print out this form and take it to your supervised test. Predeparture COVID-19 test — evidence of RAT/LAMP [PDF, 190 KB] your full name your date of birth or passport number type of test date and time of the test test result —confirming it was negative name of the testing lab You will need to upload your pre-departure result to your New Zealand Traveller Declaration. You can upload your results in the following formats: PDF, PNG and JPG – up to 50MB. How to upload your test results to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) If you cannot take a test for medical reasons, you must provide a medical certificate. You will need to get this 72 hours before your flight. You will be asked to confirm your medical exemption when completing your New Zealand Traveller Declaration. You will need to show proof of your exemption at check-in and to Customs staff when you arrive in New Zealand. If you test positive, you may not be able to board your flight. You should postpone your travel and follow local public health advice. If you have recently recovered from COVID-19 and your test result is positive, you will need to see a doctor who will examine you for current symptoms of COVID-19. If you have recently recovered from COVID-19, you still need a pre-departure test. If you test positive, a health practitioner will need to assess you for current symptoms of COVID-19. Examples of health practitioners include doctors, health protection officers or medical officers of health. Your medical assessment can be done in person or remotely. If the health practitioner is confident you do not have COVID-19, they must give you: a medical certificate confirming the date of your positive pre-departure test —either a PCR test taken a maximum of 48 hours before your first international flight, or a supervised RAT or LAMP test taken a maximum of 24 hours before your first international flight. documentation stating you are no longer infectious with COVID-19. You will also need to provide proof of your positive pre-departure test result. --- Section Separator --- Use our tool to find out if you need to get a pre-departure test to enter New Zealand. There are very few exceptions. Pre-departure testing requirements currently apply until 31 July 2022. The Government has confirmed it expects to remove pre-departure testing requirements no later than 31 July 2022. Check if you need a pre-departure test --- Section Separator --- Most travellers entering New Zealand must provide evidence of a negative COVID-19 result from one of these tests. You must get a test even if you are self-testing on arrival. You must get a PCR test a maximum of 48 hours before your first international flight to New Zealand. You must get a supervised rapid antigen test (RAT) a maximum of 24 hours before your first international flight to New Zealand. You must get a supervised loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) a maximum of 24 hours before the scheduled departure of your first international flight to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- RAT and LAMP tests must be supervised — this means the results must be verified by a health professional such as a nurse or pharmacist. You can also use a telehealth service. --- Section Separator --- You must have proof of your negative pre-departure test. You will need this to complete your New Zealand Traveller Declaration. Your pre-departure test documentation must meet New Zealand Government standards. The results must be: in English, o r accompanied by a certified translation into English in paper or digital form — a text message will only be accepted if it includes an image of the laboratory result form. Self-administered tests which are not supervised a health professional, or free tests from community testing stations may not meet the Government standard. We recommend you check before getting tested. your full name your date of birth or passport number type of test date and time of the test test result — confirming it was negative either the name of the health professional (for example, a doctor, nurse, or pharmacist) who supervised the test, including a letterhead or stamp confirming their name, occupation and employer or the name of the pharmacy, laboratory, healthcare entity, telehealth service, community-based or airport-based testing station that supervised the test. This form guides health professionals supervising your RAT or LAMP test to provide the correct information required for your traveller declaration. It helps to print out this form and take it to your supervised test. Predeparture COVID-19 test — evidence of RAT/LAMP [PDF, 190 KB] your full name your date of birth or passport number type of test date and time of the test test result —confirming it was negative name of the testing lab --- Section Separator --- You will need to upload your pre-departure result to your New Zealand Traveller Declaration. You can upload your results in the following formats: PDF, PNG and JPG – up to 50MB. How to upload your test results to the New Zealand Traveller Declaration (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you cannot take a test for medical reasons, you must provide a medical certificate. You will need to get this 72 hours before your flight. You will be asked to confirm your medical exemption when completing your New Zealand Traveller Declaration. You will need to show proof of your exemption at check-in and to Customs staff when you arrive in New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive, you may not be able to board your flight. You should postpone your travel and follow local public health advice. If you have recently recovered from COVID-19 and your test result is positive, you will need to see a doctor who will examine you for current symptoms of COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If you have recently recovered from COVID-19, you still need a pre-departure test. If you test positive, a health practitioner will need to assess you for current symptoms of COVID-19. Examples of health practitioners include doctors, health protection officers or medical officers of health. Your medical assessment can be done in person or remotely. If the health practitioner is confident you do not have COVID-19, they must give you: a medical certificate confirming the date of your positive pre-departure test —either a PCR test taken a maximum of 48 hours before your first international flight, or a supervised RAT or LAMP test taken a maximum of 24 hours before your first international flight. documentation stating you are no longer infectious with COVID-19. You will also need to provide proof of your positive pre-departure test result. --- Section Separator --- Preparing to travel to New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Testing and documentation requirements Testing and documentation requirements Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand --- Section Separator --- You will be given a pack of rapid antigen tests (RATs), with instructions on how to use them, at the airport. You must take 2 tests. Take a test on: Day 0/1, when you arrive in New Zealand, and Day 5/6. You can find more detailed instructions for taking a RAT test on the Ministry of Health website. Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. Travellers arriving from Niue do not need to self-test on arrival if they have taken a direct flight to New Zealand. If you have arrived in New Zealand from overseas in the last 7 days and you need additional RATs or if you did not receive any at the airport, you can order some online for free. You will need access to a mobile phone to validate your order and confirm your flight details. You can order RATs for yourself or people you are travelling with. Order free RATs online (external link) You must report both RAT results, whether you test negative or positive. Your Welcome Pack will have instructions on how you can report your result. If you did not get a Welcome Pack, you can email the Ministry of Health. Email: help@selfisolation.testing.min.health.nz You will receive a reminder email from the New Zealand Ministry of Health. Follow the instructions in the email and report your results using the link in the email. You can also call the COVID-19 Test Results Line with your result. The call centre is open from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Call: 0800 432 010 If you return a positive RAT result you will need to: report it, including that you have recently arrived in New Zealand isolate for 7 days, the same period as a community case in New Zealand, and get a PCR test. Tell the health professional who does the test that you have recently arrived in New Zealand. The PCR test sample provides valuable information about potential new variants coming into New Zealand. PCR tests for overseas travellers are free. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) If you return a negative RAT, you must still report your result. You do not need to self-isolate. If a result is failed or indeterminate, you must get a PCR test. Tell the health professional who does the test that you have recently arrived in New Zealand. The PCR test sample provides valuable information about potential new variants coming into New Zealand. PCR tests for overseas travellers are free. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) If you develop COVID-19 symptoms after arriving in New Zealand but test negative, you should isolate and take another RAT 48 hours later. If your symptoms get worse you can call Healthline for free on: 0800 358 5453 — if you are calling from a New Zealand phone number +64 9 358 5453 — if you are using an International SIM If you have travelled to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay and test positive after being here for 7 days or longer, you will need to: isolate for 7 days — you should have a plan for this source your own accommodation and pay for this (and meet your other costs) pay for your healthcare costs. If you are a visitor to New Zealand and have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You will be given a pack of rapid antigen tests (RATs), with instructions on how to use them, at the airport. You must take 2 tests. Take a test on: Day 0/1, when you arrive in New Zealand, and Day 5/6. You can find more detailed instructions for taking a RAT test on the Ministry of Health website. Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. Travellers arriving from Niue do not need to self-test on arrival if they have taken a direct flight to New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- If you have arrived in New Zealand from overseas in the last 7 days and you need additional RATs or if you did not receive any at the airport, you can order some online for free. You will need access to a mobile phone to validate your order and confirm your flight details. You can order RATs for yourself or people you are travelling with. Order free RATs online (external link) --- Section Separator --- You must report both RAT results, whether you test negative or positive. Your Welcome Pack will have instructions on how you can report your result. If you did not get a Welcome Pack, you can email the Ministry of Health. Email: help@selfisolation.testing.min.health.nz You will receive a reminder email from the New Zealand Ministry of Health. Follow the instructions in the email and report your results using the link in the email. You can also call the COVID-19 Test Results Line with your result. The call centre is open from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Call: 0800 432 010 --- Section Separator --- If you return a positive RAT result you will need to: report it, including that you have recently arrived in New Zealand isolate for 7 days, the same period as a community case in New Zealand, and get a PCR test. Tell the health professional who does the test that you have recently arrived in New Zealand. The PCR test sample provides valuable information about potential new variants coming into New Zealand. PCR tests for overseas travellers are free. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you return a negative RAT, you must still report your result. You do not need to self-isolate. --- Section Separator --- If a result is failed or indeterminate, you must get a PCR test. Tell the health professional who does the test that you have recently arrived in New Zealand. The PCR test sample provides valuable information about potential new variants coming into New Zealand. PCR tests for overseas travellers are free. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you develop COVID-19 symptoms after arriving in New Zealand but test negative, you should isolate and take another RAT 48 hours later. If your symptoms get worse you can call Healthline for free on: 0800 358 5453 — if you are calling from a New Zealand phone number +64 9 358 5453 — if you are using an International SIM --- Section Separator --- If you have travelled to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay and test positive after being here for 7 days or longer, you will need to: isolate for 7 days — you should have a plan for this source your own accommodation and pay for this (and meet your other costs) pay for your healthcare costs. If you are a visitor to New Zealand and have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Preparing to travel to New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand
What to do if you have travelled to New Zealand for a holiday or other temporary stay and test positive after being in New Zealand for 7 days or longer. --- Section Separator --- Report your positive rapid antigen test (RAT) by calling 0800 222 478 and get instructions on what to do. The Ministry of Health will send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers confirming your positive result. This text will provide information about self-isolation and a 6-digit access code for an online contact tracing form. You should tell your accommodation provider, the people you are staying with, people you have spent time with, such as tour operators, and any other close contacts, that you have COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Self-isolation reduces the risk of spreading the virus to others. You must isolate for at least 7 days while you recover. Your 7 days start from Day 0 — the day your symptoms started or the day you got tested. If you want extra RATs, these can be purchased from pharmacies, supermarkets, online or picked up from a collection point. Where to get a test You are required to isolate where you are or find alternative accommodation. If you do not comply, you can be fined. Check with your current accommodation provider to extend your current booking or be prepared to look for alternative accommodation. You are expected to meet any additional costs associated with extending your stay or booking alternative accommodation. Check your travel insurance policy to see if you are covered. If cannot stay in your current accommodation, you must find alternative accommodation. It must be: close to where you are without shared guest facilities. Isolation accommodation can be self-contained motels, hotels, or campervans. Ask your current accommodation provider for help finding somewhere suitable. You cannot: take a commercial flight to your accommodation do any long-distance road travel that requires an overnight stay take an interisland ferry or public transport. Private transport can be used to relocate to your alternative isolation accommodation. It can be your own vehicle, or you can a hire vehicle if it is contactless payment and collection. Anyone staying or travelling with you will need to self-isolate for 7 days. They are your Household Contacts. This includes people staying with you in: hotel or motel rooms tents campervans and motorhomes holiday homes such as Airbnb, short-stay apartments, and beach houses. Advice for your Household Contacts In hostels and backpackers, people who are not travelling with you do not need to isolate. They should: monitor for symptoms if any develop, get a test. Advice for Close Contacts Remember to contact your airline or tourism operator to reschedule any travel plans or activities. Please note, there is no legal obligation on the provider to provide a refund or reschedule. What you need to know when you are self-isolating --- Section Separator --- COVID-19, especially the Omicron variant, is highly infectious. You are protecting your health and theirs by telling them as soon as possible. You should tell the people you are staying with, your accommodation provider, people you have spent time with, such as tour operators, and any other close contacts, that you have COVID-19. They may need to isolate as well. Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) Complete the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing form using the 6-digit access code you received in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. For most people, it will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. Complete the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you need food or other essential supplies while you are isolating, ask family or friends to drop off supplies at your door. You can also order supplies online, and arrange for a contactless delivery. If you need any advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms,  call Healthline for free on: 0800 358 5453 — if you are calling from a New Zealand phone number +64 9 358 5453 — if you are using an International SIM Translation services are available. You may have to pay for any medical treatment you need. We encourage visitors to New Zealand to buy comprehensive travel insurance before they travel. If you are an Australian Citizen or Permanent Resident or are a citizen of the United Kingdom, there is a reciprocal health agreement that means you pay what New Zealanders pay for healthcare. Consider contacting your embassy, consulate or High Commission if you go into hospital or require consular assistance. Foreign embassies in New Zealand | mfat.govt.nz (external link) If you need urgent medical help call 111 immediately. Tell them you have COVID-19 when you call. This can include if you or someone you care for has: severe shortness of breath or difficulty breathing severe chest pain or discomfort difficulty waking up or is very drowsy. If you need to go into hospital, you may need to pay for any care you receive. Check your travel insurance policy to see if you are covered. --- Section Separator --- Avoid contact with the people you are staying with — for example, sleep by yourself if you can and limit the time you spend in shared spaces. If you cannot, you should stay at least 2 metres apart and wear a face mask that covers your nose and mouth when near others. Do your own laundry. Clean and disinfect surfaces regularly. This includes items frequently touched like door handles, light switches and phones. Open windows to increase fresh air flow inside. The risk of spreading COVID-19 is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. You can get deliveries, such as food and medicine, by ordering supplies online. You can work from your accommodation if you are able to do so. Do not leave your accommodation for any reason (unless it is a permitted reason such as seeking urgent medical care or exercising). Do not go out to get food or medicine. Do not share items with others in your household — for example, dishes, toothbrushes, and towels. Do not go to public places. Do not use public transport or taxis and rideshare vehicles. Do not have visitors, except people providing essential care to you or someone in the household. You can leave your accommodation if you wear a face mask at all times to: report for, and undergo, any medical examination and testing required access an essential health service for treatment that cannot wait until after your self-isolation has finished move to another place of self-isolation in order to preserve your own or another person’s life, health, or safety exercise outdoors in the neighbourhood you are staying in (do not use any shared exercise facility, such as a swimming pool) visit a dying relative who is not expected to live beyond your period of self-isolation visit the body of a relative before a funeral or tangihanga, if you will not be able to visit the body after your period of self-isolation. --- Section Separator --- If you are still sick, stay in your accommodation until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. You do not need to wait for an official message or release to leave isolation. You do not need to be tested. If you were, the result would likely show as positive but that does not mean you are infectious. Your Household Contacts can complete their isolation at the same time as you, as long as their Day 7 test was negative and they have no new or worsening symptoms. If their tests are positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and left isolation, there are a few things you should do and be mindful of in your recovery. After you have had COVID-19 Check if you need to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test, or a medical certificate confirming you have recovered before you travel. If you have recently recovered from COVID-19, your pre-departure test may show a positive result.
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before travelling to New Zealand by air. You will be required to provide proof of your vaccinations. If you do not meet the vaccination requirements, you will not be able to enter New Zealand. You need to provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand if you are: not a New Zealand citizen or resident not an Australian citizen living in New Zealand not a New Zealand citizen or resident and you are transiting New Zealand foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand. You may be able to get an exemption if you are travelling to New Zealand from a country with no, or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you might qualify for an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health: Apply for an exemption | health.govt.nz (external link) You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen have a New Zealand residence class visa are an Australian citizen living in New Zealand are a child aged 16 years and under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a health practitioner are a refugee arriving in New Zealand for the first time are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated are arriving from Antarctica have been granted a visa under the 2022 Special Ukraine Visa Policy; or if you are or were ordinarily resident in Ukraine at any point on or after 1 January 2022. Any vaccine that has been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority is approved for entry into New Zealand. To be eligible to enter New Zealand, you must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. You need a digital vaccine certificate or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: your name the name of the vaccine or vaccines you received the name of the agency that administered them the name of the place where you received them the date of each dose or the date when a primary vaccination course was completed. --- Section Separator --- Most travellers must meet COVID-19 vaccination requirements before travelling to New Zealand by air. You will be required to provide proof of your vaccinations. If you do not meet the vaccination requirements, you will not be able to enter New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- You need to provide proof of vaccination to enter New Zealand if you are: not a New Zealand citizen or resident not an Australian citizen living in New Zealand not a New Zealand citizen or resident and you are transiting New Zealand foreign air crew arriving in New Zealand. You may be able to get an exemption if you are travelling to New Zealand from a country with no, or limited access to COVID-19 vaccines. You will need to apply to the Ministry of Health for an exemption, along with evidence of why you need one. The Director-General of Health will decide if you can get an exemption. Check if you might qualify for an exemption, and apply at the Ministry of Health: Apply for an exemption | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You do not need to have proof of vaccination if you: are a New Zealand citizen have a New Zealand residence class visa are an Australian citizen living in New Zealand are a child aged 16 years and under cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons — you will need electronic or paper evidence from a health practitioner are a refugee arriving in New Zealand for the first time are a citizen of Afghanistan and you are being evacuated are arriving from Antarctica have been granted a visa under the 2022 Special Ukraine Visa Policy; or if you are or were ordinarily resident in Ukraine at any point on or after 1 January 2022. --- Section Separator --- Any vaccine that has been approved by at least 1 government health authority or approval authority is approved for entry into New Zealand. To be eligible to enter New Zealand, you must have had a full course of an approved COVID-19 vaccine. A full course of some of the approved vaccines is 1 dose only. You can have a combination of different vaccines if that combination is an approved course in the country you received them. Each of the vaccines must be on the list of approved vaccines. --- Section Separator --- You need a digital vaccine certificate or another form of electronic or paper document from a government health authority or approval authority confirming you have had a full COVID-19 vaccine course. Your evidence must confirm that you have received 1 or more COVID-19 vaccines (how many doses depends on which vaccine you have received), and: your name the name of the vaccine or vaccines you received the name of the agency that administered them the name of the place where you received them the date of each dose or the date when a primary vaccination course was completed. --- Section Separator --- Preparing to travel to New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home International travel Travel to New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's border is reopening to all tourists and visa holders from 11:59pm 31 July 2022. Vaccinated travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa category can apply to enter New Zealand from 4 July 2022 . All other visa categories — including those on visitor and student visas can apply to enter New Zealand from anywhere in the world from 31 July 2022. Cruise ships can enter New Zealand from 31 July 2022 , with the opening of the maritime border. Travellers will still need to meet all health requirements to enter New Zealand, including vaccination requirements and providing proof of a negative pre-departure test. Pre-departure testing requirements currently apply until 31 July 2022. Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) The following people can enter New Zealand now from anywhere in the world and self-test on arrival. Vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand citizens Vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand residents Vaccinated Australian citizens and permanent residents Unvaccinated Australian citizens who live in New Zealand Current temporary work and student visa holders, with a valid visa who can still meet their visa requirements. This includes both visa holders currently offshore, and those in New Zealand who choose to travel overseas and wish to return Up to 5,000 international students, for semester 2 Vaccinated travellers with a border exception Vaccinated travellers on a working holiday scheme Vaccinated travellers from countries who do not need a visa (visa waiver visitors) Vaccinated travellers from other countries who already hold a valid visitor visa Other vaccinated eligible travellers under current border settings Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand under current border settings | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Visa waiver countries and territories | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Apply for an NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) The following vaccinated people can apply to enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival: Travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa categories Travellers applying for a Work Visa in New Zealand Accredited Employer Work Visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) From 11:59pm Sunday 31 July, all visa categories including visitor and student visas will reopen for applications for travellers from anywhere in the world. You must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand, and have evidence of a negative COVID-19 test before your first international flight. Preparing to travel to New Zealand To enter New Zealand, you must meet some health requirements. Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand Get a pre-departure test After you enter New Zealand you must do 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6 and declare your results. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. All positive RATs must be registered and followed up with a PCR test. Testing requirements after arriving Travellers from some Pacific island countries are not required to get a pre-departure test or test on arrival. Travel with the Pacific Islands --- Section Separator --- New Zealand's border is reopening to all tourists and visa holders from 11:59pm 31 July 2022. Vaccinated travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa category can apply to enter New Zealand from 4 July 2022 . All other visa categories — including those on visitor and student visas can apply to enter New Zealand from anywhere in the world from 31 July 2022. Cruise ships can enter New Zealand from 31 July 2022 , with the opening of the maritime border. Travellers will still need to meet all health requirements to enter New Zealand, including vaccination requirements and providing proof of a negative pre-departure test. Pre-departure testing requirements currently apply until 31 July 2022. Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The following people can enter New Zealand now from anywhere in the world and self-test on arrival. Vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand citizens Vaccinated and unvaccinated New Zealand residents Vaccinated Australian citizens and permanent residents Unvaccinated Australian citizens who live in New Zealand Current temporary work and student visa holders, with a valid visa who can still meet their visa requirements. This includes both visa holders currently offshore, and those in New Zealand who choose to travel overseas and wish to return Up to 5,000 international students, for semester 2 Vaccinated travellers with a border exception Vaccinated travellers on a working holiday scheme Vaccinated travellers from countries who do not need a visa (visa waiver visitors) Vaccinated travellers from other countries who already hold a valid visitor visa Other vaccinated eligible travellers under current border settings Who is eligible to travel to New Zealand under current border settings | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Visa waiver countries and territories | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Apply for an NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The following vaccinated people can apply to enter New Zealand and self-test on arrival: Travellers arriving under the Accredited Employer Work Visa categories Travellers applying for a Work Visa in New Zealand Accredited Employer Work Visa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) From 11:59pm Sunday 31 July, all visa categories including visitor and student visas will reopen for applications for travellers from anywhere in the world. You must be vaccinated to enter New Zealand, and have evidence of a negative COVID-19 test before your first international flight. Preparing to travel to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- To enter New Zealand, you must meet some health requirements. Vaccination requirements to enter New Zealand Get a pre-departure test After you enter New Zealand you must do 2 rapid antigen tests (RATs) on Day 0/1 and Day 5/6 and declare your results. Children under 6 months do not need to be tested. All positive RATs must be registered and followed up with a PCR test. Testing requirements after arriving Travellers from some Pacific island countries are not required to get a pre-departure test or test on arrival. Travel with the Pacific Islands --- Section Separator --- Preparing to travel to New Zealand When New Zealand's borders open Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand Vaccination requirements for travel to New Zealand Testing requirements after arriving in New Zealand
Home Isolation and care There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. What you need to know Financial support Looking after your mental wellbeing If you get COVID-19 while travelling If you test positive while visiting New Zealand --- Section Separator --- What steps to take if you have tested positive for COVID-19. If you are self-isolating because of COVID-19, help is available if you need it. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and left isolation, there are a few things you should do and be mindful of in your recovery, including Long COVID. --- Section Separator --- What steps to take if you have tested positive for COVID-19. If you are self-isolating because of COVID-19, help is available if you need it. After you have recovered from COVID-19 and left isolation, there are a few things you should do and be mindful of in your recovery, including Long COVID.
Home Isolation and care After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If you are at low risk of severe illness, stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. You do not need to take a rapid antigen test (RAT). If you have an underlying health condition or have symptoms that are getting worse, seek advice from a health practitioner or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Get a COVID-19 test and follow the advice for a first infection. If you get COVID-19 again, your Household Contacts will need to isolate again, unless they have: had COVID-19 within the previous 90 days, or been in isolation as a Household Contact within the previous 10 days. How to get a COVID-19 test You do not need to isolate as a Household Contact for 90 days from when you first tested positive if someone else in your household gets COVID-19 during this time. The chance of you being reinfected with COVID-19 in the 90 days after testing positive is low. Household Contacts Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely after 2 to 6 weeks, and make a full recovery within 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough sore throat chest tightness chest pain difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' difficulty sleeping pins and needles dizziness joint pain muscle pain. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated or had your booster, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. You should wait 3 months after recovery before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- If you are at low risk of severe illness, stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. You do not need to take a rapid antigen test (RAT). If you have an underlying health condition or have symptoms that are getting worse, seek advice from a health practitioner or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Get a COVID-19 test and follow the advice for a first infection. If you get COVID-19 again, your Household Contacts will need to isolate again, unless they have: had COVID-19 within the previous 90 days, or been in isolation as a Household Contact within the previous 10 days. How to get a COVID-19 test You do not need to isolate as a Household Contact for 90 days from when you first tested positive if someone else in your household gets COVID-19 during this time. The chance of you being reinfected with COVID-19 in the 90 days after testing positive is low. Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely after 2 to 6 weeks, and make a full recovery within 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough sore throat chest tightness chest pain difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' difficulty sleeping pins and needles dizziness joint pain muscle pain. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Once you have recovered and if you have not been vaccinated or had your booster, it is recommended you still get vaccinated. You should wait 3 months after recovery before getting a COVID-19 vaccination. How to get a COVID-19 vaccination --- Section Separator --- Even if you have had COVID-19 or are vaccinated, you still need to keep up healthy habits. It is possible to get COVID-19 again. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19 Help when you are self-isolating Financial support
Home Isolation and care Help when you are self-isolating --- Section Separator --- Most people will be able to manage self-isolation with help from whānau and friends, but there is help available for you and your household if you need it. You may be able to get: money to pay for urgent and essential costs, like food, medicine and some bills support from community groups, iwi and Pacific groups in your area, or supplies delivered to you. Anyone can request help — you do not need to be getting a benefit. Work and Income have an online form where you can request support from a community organisation for your household, or to apply for money for urgent costs. Request help | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you prefer, you can call Work and Income's COVID-19 Welfare line for free on 0800 512 337 . It is open 8am to 5pm Monday to Friday, and 8am to 1pm Saturday, Sunday and public holidays. If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. Keep in touch with your friends and whānau, your healthcare provider, and any community groups you are in contact with. They can: check how you are feeling monitor your health check if you need basic supplies like food or medicines. It is important you answer your phone while you are self-isolating. There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. If your income has been affected Money to help with urgent costs | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. Find helplines to get support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support --- Section Separator --- Most people will be able to manage self-isolation with help from whānau and friends, but there is help available for you and your household if you need it. You may be able to get: money to pay for urgent and essential costs, like food, medicine and some bills support from community groups, iwi and Pacific groups in your area, or supplies delivered to you. Anyone can request help — you do not need to be getting a benefit. Work and Income have an online form where you can request support from a community organisation for your household, or to apply for money for urgent costs. Request help | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If you prefer, you can call Work and Income's COVID-19 Welfare line for free on 0800 512 337 . It is open 8am to 5pm Monday to Friday, and 8am to 1pm Saturday, Sunday and public holidays. If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- Keep in touch with your friends and whānau, your healthcare provider, and any community groups you are in contact with. They can: check how you are feeling monitor your health check if you need basic supplies like food or medicines. It is important you answer your phone while you are self-isolating. --- Section Separator --- There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. If your income has been affected Money to help with urgent costs | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you feel you are not coping, or you have concerns for others, it is important to talk with a health professional. Find helplines to get support Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support --- Section Separator --- If you have COVID-19 After you have had COVID-19 Help when you are self-isolating Financial support
Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. What you need to know Advice for Household Contacts Help when you are self-isolating When to end self-isolation If you are a visitor to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health has more detailed advice about managing your symptoms and what to do while you are self-isolating. COVID-19 Health Hub | covid19.health.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have taken a rapid antigen test (RAT), report your positive result online or by calling the helpline. Online: My Covid Record (external link) Call: 0800 222 478 (choose option 3) How to report your RAT result The Ministry of Health will then send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers to confirm your positive result. This has information about self-isolation, support options, and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you had a PCR test, you will get a text message with your result. --- Section Separator --- You must self-isolate for at least 7 days while you recover. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Your Household Contacts will also need to isolate for 7 days, unless they have had COVID-19 in the last 3 months. Create your household isolation timeline | covid19.health.nz (external link) Advice for your Household Contacts Help when you are self-isolating --- Section Separator --- Complete the Ministry of Health’s contact tracing form using your 6-digit access code. (You can find this code in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers .) For most people, the form will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and do not complete the form within 12 hours, you will get a phone call. Contact tracing form user guides | health.govt.nz (external link) You also need to tell your close contacts you have COVID-19. This includes the people you live with, and your workplace or school. Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | covid19.health.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19 — especially if they are fully vaccinated and boosted — are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to recover at home. Symptoms for COVID-19 tend to show 2 to 5 days after a person has been infected but can take up to 14 days. Omicron causes similar symptoms to other variants. Advice on managing your COVID-19 symptoms | covid19.health.nz (external link) If you need advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If your symptoms get worse or you need urgent medical care, call your local healthcare provider or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 If you or the person you are caring for develops difficulty breathing, severe chest pain, fainting or becomes unconscious, call 111 immediately. You will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever came first. --- Section Separator --- You can end your self-isolation 7 days after your symptoms started or you tested positive, whichever came first. You do not need to wait for an official message to leave self-isolation. You may receive a text message confirming your self-isolation period has ended. You do not need a negative RAT result to return to work or school. Some people can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. Your Household Contacts can complete their isolation at the same time as you, as long as their Day 7 test was negative and they have no new or worsening symptoms. If they test positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. You do not need to isolate as a Household Contact for 90 days from when you first tested positive if someone else in your household gets COVID-19 during this time. The chance of you being reinfected with COVID-19 in the 90 days after testing positive is low. After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can co-ordinate extra support for you if you need it. If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Braille --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Braille: Getting your face mask exemption pass [BRF, 3 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [BRF, 2 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [BRF, 1 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [BRF, 2 KB] Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. Life at Green [BRF, 3 KB] Life at Orange [BRF, 6 KB] Life at Red [BRF, 10 KB] The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 5 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [BRF, 3 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [BRF, 3 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Getting your booster dose [BRF, 4 KB] My Covid Record [BRF, 3 KB] My Vaccine Pass [BRF, 4 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [BRF, 1 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] COVID-19 testing [BRF, 3 KB] When you should get a test [BRF, 3 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] How contact tracing works [BRF, 4 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 3 KB] Isolating at home [BRF, 6 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [BRF, 2 KB] Travel within New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Braille: Getting your face mask exemption pass [BRF, 3 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [BRF, 2 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [BRF, 1 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [BRF, 2 KB] --- Section Separator --- Braille ready format (BRF) files are read by blind people on electronic braille displays. They can also be embossed (brailled) on Braille paper for those who do not have electronic Braille displays. --- Section Separator --- Life at Green [BRF, 3 KB] Life at Orange [BRF, 6 KB] Life at Red [BRF, 10 KB] --- Section Separator --- The COVID-19 virus and symptoms [BRF, 3 KB] COVID-19 variants [BRF, 4 KB] Long COVID [BRF, 3 KB] Wearing a face mask [BRF, 5 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [BRF, 3 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [BRF, 2 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [BRF, 3 KB] Is your household ready if someone gets COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [BRF, 7 KB] Getting your booster dose [BRF, 4 KB] My Covid Record [BRF, 3 KB] My Vaccine Pass [BRF, 4 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [BRF, 1 KB] The COVID-19 vaccine for tamariki [BRF, 7 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccine [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 testing [BRF, 3 KB] When you should get a test [BRF, 3 KB] How to get a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 3 KB] How to use a Rapid Antigen Test [BRF, 4 KB] How to report your Rapid Antigen Test results [BRF, 3 KB] What happens if you test positive for COVID-19? [BRF, 6 KB] If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 [BRF, 3 KB] How contact tracing works [BRF, 4 KB] How to use the COVID-19 contact tracing form [BRF, 3 KB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [BRF, 6 KB] Help while you are isolating [BRF, 2 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [BRF, 5 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [BRF, 2 KB] --- Section Separator --- Travel within New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] Leaving New Zealand [BRF, 3 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [BRF, 5 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Information and advice about COVID-19 in Easy Read format. --- Section Separator --- This page has lots of links to Easy Read information. Scroll down the page and click the boxes below to find more information. --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Easy Read: What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 5.4 MB] Travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.6 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.8 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information about the traffic lights system. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Easy Read about travelling to and from New Zealand, and travelling around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information about the traffic lights system. Find out what you can do to protect you, your friends and your family from COVID-19. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Easy Read about travelling to and from New Zealand, and travelling around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get, including help getting food and looking after your mental wellbeing. --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 1.9 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [DOCX, 19 MB] An Easy Read guide to the COVID-19 vaccine [PDF, 4 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the Pfizer vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 1.9 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [DOCX, 11 MB] An Easy Read guide to the AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Information about the COVID-19 booster [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Vaccination Healthline disability support team [PDF, 1.2 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [DOCX, 3.7 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine temporary medical exemptions [PDF, 1.2 MB] About the third primary dose [DOCX, 4 MB] About the third primary dose [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 16 MB] Information about COVID-19 vaccine for parents/caregivers of children aged 5 to 11 years [PDF, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Isolation and care (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.8 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 2.7 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [DOCX, 9.2 MB] What happens if your COVID-19 test result is positive [PDF, 2.2 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [DOCX, 8 MB] Looking after yourself if you are sick with COVID-19 [PDF, 2.3 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 4.8 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [PDF, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you need to stay home to self-isolate [PDF, 2.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 10 MB] Wearing a face mask [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [DOCX, 11 MB] What is COVID-19 and what are the symptoms? [PDF, 1.9 MB] What is the Omicron variant [DOCX, 12 MB] What is the Omicron variant [PDF, 2.6 MB] What is Long COVID? [DOCX, 5.5 MB] What is Long COVID? [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Wearing a face mask [DOCX, 10 MB] Wearing a face mask [PDF, 1.9 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [DOCX, 7.5 MB] What to do if you cannot wear a face mask [PDF, 1.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- Getting ready for COVID-19 [DOCX, 13 MB] Getting ready for COVID-19 [PDF, 3.2 MB] My COVID-19 plan [DOCX, 6.4 MB] My COVID-19 plan [PDF, 1.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Information in Easy Read about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Getting tested for COVID-19 is free. Find out about getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Getting tested for COVID-19 is free. Find out about getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [DOCX, 12 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [PDF, 2.1 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [DOCX, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [PDF, 1 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [DOCX, 9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [DOCX, 8.8 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [PDF, 1.6 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [DOCX, 6.5 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] Changes to the traffic light system rules [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Changes to the traffic light system rules [PDF, 1.5 MB] Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [DOCX, 12 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Life at Orange [PDF, 2.1 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [DOCX, 4.5 MB] COVID-19 Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Orange [PDF, 1 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [DOCX, 9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Life at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: What is open at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [DOCX, 10 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Education at Red [PDF, 1.9 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [DOCX, 8.8 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Sports and recreation at Red [PDF, 1.6 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [DOCX, 6.5 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Travel at Red [PDF, 1.4 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [DOCX, 3.7 MB] COVID Protection Framework: Getting the support you need at Red [PDF, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Changes to the traffic light system rules [DOCX, 5.1 MB] Changes to the traffic light system rules [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Information about My Covid Record [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Covid Record [PDF, 1.7 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 6.3 MB] Information about My Vaccine Pass [PDF, 1.6 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [DOCX, 6.8 MB] Information about the International Travel Vaccination Certificate [PDF, 2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Easy Read Travel (Easy Read) --- Section Separator --- Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [DOCX, 19 MB] Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [PDF, 3.4 MB] Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 5.4 MB] Travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.6 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [PDF, 2.4 MB] Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [DOCX, 19 MB] Travelling in New Zealand under the traffic light system [PDF, 3.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 5.4 MB] Travelling to New Zealand [PDF, 1.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [DOCX, 11 MB] What to do if you are planning to go out of New Zealand [PDF, 2.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Easy Read information uses words and pictures to present information in a way that’s easier to understand. Easy Read information has been developed to support people with learning disabilities better understand written information. Easy Read information might be helpful for people who: have a learning disability have low literacy levels use English as a second language are elderly are Deaf. --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Traffic lights (Easy Read) Prepare and stay safe (Easy Read) COVID-19 vaccines (Easy Read) Testing and tracing (Easy Read) Isolation and care (Easy Read) Travel (Easy Read) Support (Easy Read) Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Information about our response to COVID-19 in Large Print and audio formats. --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in Large print and Audio: Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] New process for face mask exemptions [DOCX, 539 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [MP3, 753 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [DOCX, 538 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [MP3, 357 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 542 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [MP3, 2.5 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 540 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [MP3, 1016 KB] --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to, from and around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic. --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in Large Print and audio about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Find out more about COVID-19 vaccines in Large Print and audio, including how to book your vaccine and what you can expect when you go to get your vaccine. Information in Large Print and audio about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Information in Large Print and audio about travelling to, from and around New Zealand. Find out what support you can get in Large Print and audio about looking after your mental wellbeing through the COVID-19 pandemic.
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 544 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [DOCX, 117 KB] Getting your booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.7 MB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [MP3, 3.2 MB] Getting your booster dose [MP3, 1.7 MB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] My Covid Record [DOCX, 539 KB] My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 541 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [DOCX, 538 KB] My Covid Record [MP3, 1.6 MB] My Vaccine Pass [MP3, 1.9 MB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [MP3, 357 KB] --- Section Separator --- The Pfizer vaccine [DOCX, 544 KB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [DOCX, 117 KB] Getting your booster dose [DOCX, 540 KB] The Pfizer vaccine [MP3, 3.7 MB] The AstraZeneca vaccine [MP3, 3.2 MB] Getting your booster dose [MP3, 1.7 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [DOCX, 116 KB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [DOCX, 113 KB] COVID-19 vaccinations for tamariki aged 5 to 11 years [MP3, 13 MB] After your child's Pfizer vaccination [MP3, 9.8 MB] --- Section Separator --- My Covid Record [DOCX, 539 KB] My Vaccine Pass [DOCX, 541 KB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [DOCX, 538 KB] My Covid Record [MP3, 1.6 MB] My Vaccine Pass [MP3, 1.9 MB] Updated My Vaccine Passes [MP3, 357 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 542 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 3.3 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 540 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [MP3, 1016 KB] --- Section Separator --- Isolating at home [DOCX, 542 KB] Help while you're self-isolating [DOCX, 539 KB] Isolating at home [MP3, 3.3 MB] Help while you're self-isolating [MP3, 940 KB] --- Section Separator --- Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [DOCX, 541 KB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [DOCX, 540 KB] Managing your COVID-19 symptoms [MP3, 2 MB] Medicines for treating COVID-19 [MP3, 1016 KB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [DOCX, 441 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [DOCX, 539 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 2.3 MB] New process for face mask exemptions [MP3, 753 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 537 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 virus and symptoms [DOCX, 96 KB] About COVID-19 variants [DOCX, 540 KB] Long COVID [DOCX, 540 KB] COVID-19 virus and symptoms [MP3, 1.7 MB] About COVID-19 variants [MP3, 6 MB] Long COVID [MP3, 1.4 MB] --- Section Separator --- Face coverings and masks [DOCX, 540 KB] Who does not need to wear a face mask [DOCX, 441 KB] New process for face mask exemptions [DOCX, 539 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [DOCX, 442 KB] Face coverings and masks [MP3, 2.3 MB] New process for face mask exemptions [MP3, 753 KB] Getting your face mask exemption pass [MP3, 1.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [DOCX, 537 KB] Is your household ready if someone tests positive for COVID-19? [MP3, 7 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Support (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 386 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [DOCX, 104 KB] Support with food, money, living and staying safe and well [MP3, 2.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Looking after your mental wellbeing [DOCX, 386 KB] Looking after your mental wellbeing [MP3, 22 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Life at Green [DOCX, 540 KB] Life at Red [DOCX, 546 KB] Life at Orange [DOCX, 543 KB] Life at Green [MP3, 1.4 MB] Life at Red [MP3, 5 MB] Life at Orange [MP3, 3.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- Life at Green [DOCX, 540 KB] Life at Red [DOCX, 546 KB] Life at Orange [DOCX, 543 KB] Life at Green [MP3, 1.4 MB] Life at Red [MP3, 5 MB] Life at Orange [MP3, 3.2 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats Large Print and audio Travel (Large Print and audio) --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 542 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [MP3, 2.5 MB] Travel within New Zealand [DOCX, 542 KB] Travel within New Zealand [MP3, 8.9 MB] Leaving New Zealand [DOCX, 539 KB] Leaving New Zealand [MP3, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Travelling to New Zealand [DOCX, 542 KB] Travelling to New Zealand [MP3, 2.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- Travel within New Zealand [DOCX, 542 KB] Travel within New Zealand [MP3, 8.9 MB] --- Section Separator --- Leaving New Zealand [DOCX, 539 KB] Leaving New Zealand [MP3, 3.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print and audio Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Traffic lights (Large Print and audio) Prepare and stay safe (Large Print and audio) COVID-19 vaccines (Large Print and audio) Testing and tracing (Large Print and audio) Isolation and care (Large Print and audio) Travel (Large Print and audio) Support (Large Print and audio) Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Advice about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language (NZSL). --- Section Separator --- Here is the most recent information about COVID-19 in New Zealand Sign Language: Getting your face mask exemption pass (external link) New face mask exemption process (external link) Updated My Vaccine Passes (external link) Travelling to New Zealand (external link) Medicines for treating COVID-19 (external link) --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Find out what you need to do if you are planning to travel to, from or around New Zealand. Find out about support available through the pandemic in New Zealand Sign Language --- Section Separator --- The traffic lights protect Aotearoa New Zealand from COVID-19. Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. There is support and advice available if you test positive for COVID-19 and need to self-isolate. Find out what you need to do if you are planning to travel to, from or around New Zealand. Find out about support available through the pandemic in New Zealand Sign Language
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Vaccination protects your child, your whānau and your community. The COVID-19 vaccine is free and available for everyone aged 5 and over. --- Section Separator --- Find out about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand and how to get vaccinated Find out how to get proof of vaccination for use in New Zealand and when travelling overseas Find out about vaccinating your child against COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Find out about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand and how to get vaccinated Find out how to get proof of vaccination for use in New Zealand and when travelling overseas Find out about vaccinating your child against COVID-19
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) Find out more in NZSL about the COVID-19 virus and how you can protect yourself and others from the virus. --- Section Separator --- Find out about COVID-19 symptoms and variants of the virus Find out when you need to wear a face mask Find out how your household can prepare for COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Find out about COVID-19 symptoms and variants of the virus Find out when you need to wear a face mask Find out how your household can prepare for COVID-19
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Support (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Information in NZSL about testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing — 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. --- Section Separator --- Find information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive Find out how contact tracing works, and about the NZ COVID Tracer app --- Section Separator --- Find information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive Find out how contact tracing works, and about the NZ COVID Tracer app
Home Languages and resources Alternate formats New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) --- Section Separator --- New Zealand Sign Language Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Traffic lights (NZSL) Prepare and stay safe (NZSL) COVID-19 vaccines (NZSL) Testing and tracing (NZSL) Isolation and care (NZSL) Travel (NZSL) Support (NZSL) Easy Read Large Print and audio Braille Audio description
Home Languages and resources Posters Download posters and resources for your household and business to help everyone keep safe from COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- You can view and download all our COVID-19 branded assets and resources, including posters for your business, through our COVID-19 Resource Toolkit. You can also download social media tiles to use. COVID-19 Resource Toolkit (external link) You can also order free COVID-19 collateral for your business, community organisation or event through our online catalogue and have the resources delivered direct to you, your business or community group. Order free printed collateral (external link) These resources are for small to medium enterprises. If you have the resources to do so, or have a business at multiple locations, we can provide the files to print your own. Email us at covid.comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- Please wear a face mask — A4 [PDF, 1.5 MB] You must wear a face mask here — A4 [PDF, 85 KB] We encourage you to wear a face mask — A4 [PDF, 86 KB] How to wear a face mask safely [PDF, 144 KB] How to remove a face mask [PDF, 115 KB] --- Section Separator --- Make a plan if you get COVID-19 [PDF, 176 KB] Kia ora — we're self-isolating. Please do not enter [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- How to use a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) [PDF, 730 KB] --- Section Separator --- What type of contact are you? [PNG, 907 KB] How to work out your days of self-isolation [PNG, 926 KB] Household Contacts — what you need to do [PNG, 903 KB] Testing positive at different times [PNG, 1 MB] Do you need a test to leave isolation? [PNG, 857 KB] Got any symptoms? [JPG, 489 KB] Test results [JPG, 527 KB] How to self-isolate [JPG, 605 KB] Need support? [JPG, 501 KB] What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [JPG, 539 KB] What to do when you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 167 KB] --- Section Separator --- Download a printable table of the traffic light settings. COVID-19 Protection Framework traffic lights table [PDF, 57 KB] --- Section Separator --- Businesses and workplaces are no longer required to display a QR code poster but can choose to do so. Get your QR code poster (external link) (external link) Manage and reprint your QR code posters (external link) (external link) More information about NZ COVID Tracer QR codes | health.govt.nz (external link) NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] A simplified version is available for disabled communities: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, simplified [PDF, 2.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- There is no requirement for businesses to use My Vaccine Pass. Businesses can choose to check My Vaccine Pass if they would like to. If your business chooses to, you could display a poster to let people know: Kia ora — Vaccine pass required for entry [PDF, 86 KB] Find out more about My Vaccine Pass --- Section Separator --- We have some posters in other languages. Find the language you want and then go to the ‘Posters and resources’ section. Information in other languages
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Honoa mai ki ngā whakaohiti mō ngā pārongo KŌWHEORI-19 kua whakawhitia ki te reo Māori --- Section Separator --- Anei ngā whakahoutanga KOWHEORI-19 hou rawa: Te haere ki Aotearoa Travelling to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Ko tā te kano ārai mate he tiaki i ō tamariki, tō whānau me tō hapori. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. Rapua ngā mahi hei whai māhau mēnā e whakaaro ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa, atu i Aotearoa, i roto rānei o Aotearoa. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo. --- Section Separator --- E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. Ko tā te kano ārai mate he tiaki i ō tamariki, tō whānau me tō hapori. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. Ka wātea ētahi tautoko, tohutohu hoki mēnā ka whakatauhia e pāngia ana koe e te KOWHEORI-19, ā, me noho taratahi koe. Rapua ngā mahi hei whai māhau mēnā e whakaaro ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa, atu i Aotearoa, i roto rānei o Aotearoa. E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. E wātea ana ngā pānui me ngā rauemi i tō reo.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Tiaki i a koe, ētahi atu hoki, mai i te KOWHEORI-19 mā te whai i ngā tohutohu hauora hou rawa. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā momo rerekē o te huaketo Rapua ngā wā me mau maruhā koe Rapua he kōrero me pēhea tō whare, tō pakihi rānei e whakariterite mō te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā momo rerekē o te huaketo Rapua ngā wā me mau maruhā koe Rapua he kōrero me pēhea tō whare, tō pakihi rānei e whakariterite mō te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā ārai kanohi me ngā maruhā | Face coverings and masks Rapua ngā wā me mau maruhā koe --- Section Separator --- Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o ngā pata i te wā e kōrero ana, e kata ana, e maremare ana, e matihe ana hoki te tangata. Ka hāngai hoki ki tēnei ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 engari e ora ana te āhua, otirā kāore he tohumate mārama. He wā anō, tē taea e ētahi tāngata te mau maruhā. He mea nui kia māhaki, ka atawhai --- Section Separator --- Ka āwhina ngā ārai kanohi ki te whakaiti i te horanga o te KOWHEORI-19. Ka āwhina ki te aukati i te rerenga o ngā pata i te wā e kōrero ana, e kata ana, e maremare ana, e matihe ana hoki te tangata. Ka hāngai hoki ki tēnei ngā tāngata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 engari e ora ana te āhua, otirā kāore he tohumate mārama. He wā anō, tē taea e ētahi tāngata te mau maruhā. He mea nui kia māhaki, ka atawhai
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Ngā pārongo mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Information about COVID-19 Rapua he kōrero mō ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19 me ngā momo rerekē o te huaketo --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te horapa o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, he aha hoki ngā tohumate rerekē o te huaketo Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te horapa o te KOWHEORI-19, ā, he aha hoki ngā tohumate rerekē o te huaketo Ka whai pānga pea te tere o te horanga o te wheori i ngā momo rerekē o te KOWHEORI-19, te āhua rānei o te kaha o te māuiui o te tangata i te wheori.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Me whakarite, me noho haumaru | Prepare and stay safe Te whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19 | Preparing for COVID-19 Rapua he kōrero me pēhea tō whare, tō pakihi rānei e whakariterite mō te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero o ngā mahi ka taea e koe ki te whakariterite i tō whare mō te KOWHEORI-19 Me whakarite mahere mō te āhua o te pānga o te KOWHEORI-19 ki ō kaimahi, ō kaiwhakarato, ō kiritaki rānei. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero o ngā mahi ka taea e koe ki te whakariterite i tō whare mō te KOWHEORI-19 Me whakarite mahere mō te āhua o te pānga o te KOWHEORI-19 ki ō kaimahi, ō kaiwhakarato, ō kiritaki rānei.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te tautoko | Support E wātea ana te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki. --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā mōhiohio mō te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki hei te wā o te urutā KOWHEORI-19. Kei te hiahia tātou katoa ki te kai me ngā mea waiwai pērā i te rongoā i ngā wā o te rāhuitanga KOWHEORI-19, nō reira kaua e whakatiki i a koe. Kei tēnei pārongo ngā mōhiohio mō ngā huarahi maha e whiwhi kai ai, e whiwhi mea waiwai ai koe. --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā mōhiohio mō te tautoko ā-pūtea, ā-oranga hoki hei te wā o te urutā KOWHEORI-19. Kei te hiahia tātou katoa ki te kai me ngā mea waiwai pērā i te rongoā i ngā wā o te rāhuitanga KOWHEORI-19, nō reira kaua e whakatiki i a koe. Kei tēnei pārongo ngā mōhiohio mō ngā huarahi maha e whiwhi kai ai, e whiwhi mea waiwai ai koe.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Ko te rapu i tētahi whakamātautau me te whaiwhai haere i ngā wāhi kua tae koe, ngā huarahi whaitake e rua hei āwhina ki te whakahaere i te KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he mōhiohio, he tohutohu hoki mō te whakahaere whakamātautau, kia hea mahia ai, ā, ka aha mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te mate Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te whaiwhai pānga, ā, me te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer --- Section Separator --- Rapua he mōhiohio, he tohutohu hoki mō te whakahaere whakamātautau, kia hea mahia ai, ā, ka aha mēnā ka kitea e pāngia ana koe e te mate Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te whaiwhai pānga, ā, me te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Whakatewhatewha Pānga | Contact tracing Rapua he kōrero mō te āhua o te whaiwhai pānga, ā, me te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer --- Section Separator --- Mā te whaiwhai i te pātanga ka taea e mātau te kimi te hunga kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, tukuna haumarutia ō mōhiohio i runga ipurangi ki Te Manatū Hauora hei whakamōhio i ētahi atu me pēhea te tirotiro i ngā tohumate. --- Section Separator --- Mā te whaiwhai i te pātanga ka taea e mātau te kimi te hunga kua pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Kua whakahoutia te taupānga NZ COVID Tracer ki te hangarau kimi Hono iarere. Mā te kimi Hono iarere e āhei ai tō whiwhi i tētahi whakaohiti mēnā kua whakapā tata koe ki tētahi atu kaiwhakamahi taupānga ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā ka kitea kua pāngia koe e te KOWHEORI-19, tukuna haumarutia ō mōhiohio i runga ipurangi ki Te Manatū Hauora hei whakamōhio i ētahi atu me pēhea te tirotiro i ngā tohumate.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te whakamātautau me te whaiwhai pānga | Testing and tracing Te whakamātautau | Testing He kōrero mō ngā whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 | About COVID-19 testing --- Section Separator --- Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] Ko te tikanga, he kore utu ngā whakamātautau mā te katoa — ehara i te mea me kirirarau koe o Aotearoa, kainoho rānei, ā, e kore koe e utu mō ngā whakamaimoatanga ina pāngia koe e te mate. Ka mate pea koe ki te utu mō te whakamātautau ki te kuhu ki tētahi atu whenua, mō ngā take whakamātautau tūtei e te rāngai pakihi, otirā kei waho tēnei i ngā here o te ture. Te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, mō te hāereere i te ao Ko ētahi take o te whiwhi whakamātautau mēnā: e āhua māuiui ana he pānga koe nō tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 e haere ana koe i te motu, otirā ka hiahia te kaiwhakahaere kawenga i tētahi whakamātautau huakore e haere ana koe ki tāwāhi (kei te āhua tēnā o te whenua e haere ai koe) e kuhu ana koe ki Aotearoa e haere ana ki tētahi kōti, ā, kāore he tohumate, engari kāore hoki he kano ārai mate e hiahiatia ana kia pai ai te haere ki te mahi Ina whakaaro koe me whiwhi whakamātautau, waea atu a Healthline i 0800 358 5453 Rapu kōrero hei āwhea whiwhi whakamātautau ai Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i tētahi Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment) kia taea tonu te utu i a koe. Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (external link) I Aotearoa e toru ngā momo whakamātautau mō te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19: PCR, Hūware me te Ākipaturopi tere. Ko te PCR (nasopharyngeal rānei) ngā whakamātautau tika rawa, ā, ka taea i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori, ngā hōhipera me ngā pokapū hauora. Kei waenga i te 2-5 rā te roa. He pani ki te wāhanga whakamuri o te ihu me te korokoro. He āhua rite te rākau pani ki tētahi miro pūkohu iti engari he roa ake te rākau. E wātea ana ēnei whakamātautau ki ngā kaimahi rohenga whenua. Ka taea te kohi ā-whaiaro i ngā tīpakohanga hūware me te whakataka atu ki tētahi wāhi kohinga, ka taea rānei te mahi i mua i tētahi kaimahi hauora. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. He nui ake te whakamahia o ēnei i te wā e nui ana ngā pānga. --- Section Separator --- Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? | What to do if you have COVID-19 symptoms [PDF, 108 KB] --- Section Separator --- Ko te tikanga, he kore utu ngā whakamātautau mā te katoa — ehara i te mea me kirirarau koe o Aotearoa, kainoho rānei, ā, e kore koe e utu mō ngā whakamaimoatanga ina pāngia koe e te mate. Ka mate pea koe ki te utu mō te whakamātautau ki te kuhu ki tētahi atu whenua, mō ngā take whakamātautau tūtei e te rāngai pakihi, otirā kei waho tēnei i ngā here o te ture. Te whiwhi i tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga, mō te hāereere i te ao Ko ētahi take o te whiwhi whakamātautau mēnā: e āhua māuiui ana he pānga koe nō tētahi tangata e pāngia ana e te KOWHEORI-19 e haere ana koe i te motu, otirā ka hiahia te kaiwhakahaere kawenga i tētahi whakamātautau huakore e haere ana koe ki tāwāhi (kei te āhua tēnā o te whenua e haere ai koe) e kuhu ana koe ki Aotearoa e haere ana ki tētahi kōti, ā, kāore he tohumate, engari kāore hoki he kano ārai mate e hiahiatia ana kia pai ai te haere ki te mahi Ina whakaaro koe me whiwhi whakamātautau, waea atu a Healthline i 0800 358 5453 Rapu kōrero hei āwhea whiwhi whakamātautau ai Mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi mai i te kāinga, ka taea e tō kaituku mahi te tono i tētahi Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (COVID-19 Short-Term Absence Payment) kia taea tonu te utu i a koe. Utunga Korenga i te Mahi Wā Poto (external link) I Aotearoa e toru ngā momo whakamātautau mō te whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19: PCR, Hūware me te Ākipaturopi tere. Ko te PCR (nasopharyngeal rānei) ngā whakamātautau tika rawa, ā, ka taea i ngā pokapū whakamātautau ā-hapori, ngā hōhipera me ngā pokapū hauora. Kei waenga i te 2-5 rā te roa. He pani ki te wāhanga whakamuri o te ihu me te korokoro. He āhua rite te rākau pani ki tētahi miro pūkohu iti engari he roa ake te rākau. E wātea ana ēnei whakamātautau ki ngā kaimahi rohenga whenua. Ka taea te kohi ā-whaiaro i ngā tīpakohanga hūware me te whakataka atu ki tētahi wāhi kohinga, ka taea rānei te mahi i mua i tētahi kaimahi hauora. Tangohia ai te pani mō te whakamātautau ākipaturopi tere (RAT) i mua i te ihu. Ka taea i ngā hōhipera, ngā pokapū hauora, ngā kēmehi, i te kāinga hoki. He nui ake te whakamahia o ēnei i te wā e nui ana ngā pānga. --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights E tiaki ana te pūnaha rama toru (Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19) i a Aotearoa mai i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- I te Kākāriki, he whāiti te rere ā-hapori, ā, e rite ana tō tātou pūnaha hauora ki te urupare atu. I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- I te Kākāriki, he whāiti te rere ā-hapori, ā, e rite ana tō tātou pūnaha hauora ki te urupare atu. I te Karaka, he rerenga hapori o te KOWHEORI-19. Kei te nui haere nga mōrearea ki ngā hapori whakaraerae me te pēhanga i runga i te pūnaha hauora. I te Whero, me whai tātou i ngā mahi ki te tiaki i ō tātou hapori whakaraerae me tō tātou pūnaha hauora i te KOWHEORI-19. --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Rama toru | Traffic lights Te ora i te Kākāriki | Life at Green --- Section Separator --- I te Kākāriki kāore he herenga mō te mau maruhā, te matawai, ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i ngā wāhi i rō whare, i waho rānei, ngā whakaritenga kano ārai (māna kua whakamanahia mō tō mahi), te hāereere rānei. Heoi anō, e tūtohua ana me ū tonu ki ngā ritenga hauora kia noho haumaru ai. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19, me whakamātauria koe. Mēnā kua pāngia koe, me whai i ngā herenga hauora katoa, tae atu ki te noho taratahi. Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? [PDF, 108 KB] Te whakamātautau mō te KOWHEORI-19 Koinei te wā pai ki te whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19. Whakaritea tētahi mahere mā tō kāinga, pakihi rānei mō te tūpono ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea hoki te tikiake i tētahi Arowhai Takatū. Me whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19 Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Noho kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana Horoia ō ringa, whakamahia rānei te patuero Me mare, matihe rānei ki tō tuke Me auau te horoi, te patuero rānei ngā papa tiri Me whakapai ake i te kōhauhau Kia tawhiti tonu te tū i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tōu ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te tangata takitahi me ngā whānau --- Section Separator --- I te Kākāriki kāore he herenga mō te mau maruhā, te matawai, ngā tepenga mō te maha o ngā tāngata i ngā wāhi i rō whare, i waho rānei, ngā whakaritenga kano ārai (māna kua whakamanahia mō tō mahi), te hāereere rānei. Heoi anō, e tūtohua ana me ū tonu ki ngā ritenga hauora kia noho haumaru ai. Mēnā kua pāngia koe e ngā tohumate KOWHEORI-19, me whakamātauria koe. Mēnā kua pāngia koe, me whai i ngā herenga hauora katoa, tae atu ki te noho taratahi. Me aha koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 ōu? [PDF, 108 KB] Te whakamātautau mō te KOWHEORI-19 Koinei te wā pai ki te whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19. Whakaritea tētahi mahere mā tō kāinga, pakihi rānei mō te tūpono ka pāngia e te KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea hoki te tikiake i tētahi Arowhai Takatū. Me whakarite mō te KOWHEORI-19 Whakapōturitia te rerenga o te huaketo mā te whai i ngā ritenga hauora. Noho kāinga mēnā e māuiui ana Horoia ō ringa, whakamahia rānei te patuero Me mare, matihe rānei ki tō tuke Me auau te horoi, te patuero rānei ngā papa tiri Me whakapai ake i te kōhauhau Kia tawhiti tonu te tū i ētahi atu mēnā ka taea Tērā pea he āwhina e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga nā te KOWHEORI-19. Te āwhina i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga Ka taea e koe te tono pūtea tautoko hei āwhina ki te utu i ngā moni whiwhi a ō kaimahi, otirā i a koe tonu mēnā ko koe tonu tōu ake rangatira. Tautoko KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā kaituku mahi | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Ka taea pea e Te Hiranga Tangata te āwhina i a koe mēnā kei te hiahia tautoko i a koe e noho taratahi ana i te kāinga, te āwhina rānei i tō kaituku mahi ki te utu i a koe mēnā kāore e taea e koe te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19. Mēnā kei te māuiui koe, me whakatā rānei i te mahi nā te KOWHEORI-19 | Te Hiranga Tangata (external link) Rapua he aha ngā tautoko tāpiri e wātea ana ki a koutou ko tō whānau hei utu i te kai, ngā rawa waiwai, te hauora hinengaro me te oranga hoki. Tautoko mā te tangata takitahi me ngā whānau --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel Rapua ngā mahi hei whai māhau mēnā e whakaaro ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa, atu i Aotearoa, i roto rānei o Aotearoa. --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā kōrero me mōhio koe mō te hāereere i Aotearoa i raro i te pūnaha rama toru Me aha koe mēnā kei te whakarite koe ki te wehe i Aotearoa. E tuwhera haere ana ngā roherohenga o Aotearoa puta noa i te 2022, me te kore anō e mate ki te noho taratahi i te taenga mai. --- Section Separator --- Kimihia ngā kōrero me mōhio koe mō te hāereere i Aotearoa i raro i te pūnaha rama toru Me aha koe mēnā kei te whakarite koe ki te wehe i Aotearoa. E tuwhera haere ana ngā roherohenga o Aotearoa puta noa i te 2022, me te kore anō e mate ki te noho taratahi i te taenga mai.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Te hāereere | Travel Te haere ki Aotearoa | Travelling to New Zealand --- Section Separator --- E haere ai koe ki Aotearoa, me tutuki i a koe ētahi herenga. Ko ngā hipanga i raro nei e whakamārama ana he aha ngā taunakitanga hei whakaatu māhau, e uru ai koe ki Aotearoa. He tere te panoni o ngā tautuhinga - mā Immigration New Zealand e tuku i ngā mōhiohio hou rawa. Te haere ki Aotearoa | Immigration New Zealand (external link) Ka taea e ngā kirirarau o Aotearoa me ētahi atu tāngata e māraurau ana te kuhu mai ki Aotearoa, ā, me te whakamātautau anō i a koe i tō taenga mai. Ki te tiro mēnā e māraurau ana koe, haere ki te pae tukutuku a Immigration New Zealand. Ko te nuinga o ngā tāngata haere ki Aotearoa me whiwhi i ngā pota katoa o tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia, ahakoa tērā ētahi aweretanga. I mua i te haere, me tiro kei te mana tonu tō uruwhenua. Tērā pea me tono koe i tētahi New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Tirohia mēnā e māraurau ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Ngā herenga kano ārai mate  me ngā kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia Me tono i tētahi NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Tāpuitia tō haerenga ki Aotearoa. Tirohia te kaupapahere a te kaikawe mō te kano ārai mate, ngā whakakorenga me ngā whakahokinga moni, hua noa kei mate koe ki te panoni i ō maheretanga. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te hoko i te inihua haere, hua noa kei pāngia ō whakaritenga hāereere. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te tāpui i te wāhi noho hāngai mō te noho taratahi i te kāinga, ina hua ake tērā āhuatanga. Me whakaoti ngā tāngata haere katoa, i tētahi Whakapuakanga Hāereere o Aotearoa i mua i te haere ki Aotearoa. Kia oti ana, ka tukuna ki a koe tētahi Traveller Pass. Kia wawe tonu te whakarite i tō whakapuakanga. Ka taea e koe te whakakī haere i te 28 rā i mua i tō haerenga. Tīmataria tō whakapuakanga hāereere (external link) Rau mōhiohio whakapuakanga tangata haere (external link) Me whiwhi te nuinga o ngā tāngata haere i tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mua o te haere, e kī ana kāore e pāngia ana. Me whakarite i te tutukitanga o ō tuhinga whakamātautau i mua o te haere, i ngā paerewa o Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tā i te tātauira kei raro nei ki te whakarite kei te tuku ngā mātanga hauora e tirotiro ana i tō whakamātautau, e whakarato ana rātou i ngā mōhiohio e hiahiatia ana. Tērā ētahi take e kore pea e ētahi tāngata e hiahia i tētahi whakamātautau i mua o te haere. Ka taea e koe te rapu i te rārangi o ngā take hāpono mō tētahi aweretanga whakamātautau i mua o te haere i raro nei. Ka hiahiatia pea kia whakaatu koe i ngā taunakitanga o tō aweretanga. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā herenga o te whakamātautau i mua o te haere Tīkina ake he tātauira whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mua o te haere [PDF, 190 KB] E oti ai tō whakapuakanga haere, me whakarato koe i: ngā taipitopito uruwhenua ngā mōhiohio haere te whakaaturanga kano ārai mate (mēnā e hiahiatia ana) tō hītori haere mō ngā rā 14 kua hipa ngā taipitopito whakapā i Aotearoa ngā taipitopito whakapā ohotata te whakaaturanga o tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga - engari ia mēnā he aweretanga Tirohia anō ngā taipitopito kua tāurua e koe ki te whakapuakanga hāereere ki te whakarite mēnā e rite ana ki ō tuhinga ōkawa. Me whakaatu koe i tō Traveller Pass ina taki-mai koe ki te taunga rererangi, ā, me whakaatu hoki ki Te Mana Ārai o Aotearoa. Ka taea te tā, te roki rānei ki tō pūrere kawe. Me kawe tonu koe i ngā pepa hāngai kua oti i a koe te tuku ake ki te Whakapuakanga Hāereere o Aotearoa. Aratohu ki te tuku ake i ō taunakitanga (external link) Ka tonoa koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 āu, e te kaimahi waka rererangi. Mēnā e hāngai ana, me whiwhi koe i tō: uruwhenua kōkota tīkiti mō tō haerenga Traveller Pass kua oti te whakakī taunakitanga o tō tūnga kano ārai mate hua whakamātautau i mua o te wehenga e tohu ana kāore koe e pāngia ana. Mā te Mana Ārai o Aotearoa e manatoko i tō hītori hāereere, tō hua whakamātautau i mua o te wehenga, tō tūnga kano ārai mate, tō Traveller Pass, me ētahi atu herenga uru mai. Ka āhua roa pea te wā, i a koe e whakawhiti ana mā roto i te taunga rererangi. I te Haumaru koiora, ka tukuna ki a koe tētahi pūhera whakatau. Kei roto i tō pūhera whakatau: ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere he aratohu o te whakamātautau me te tuku atu i ō hua. Whakaotihia ō whakamātautau, ā, ka tuku atu i ō hua, i runga anō i ngā tohu. Ngā whakaritenga whakamātautau i muri i te taenga ki Aotearoa --- Section Separator --- E haere ai koe ki Aotearoa, me tutuki i a koe ētahi herenga. Ko ngā hipanga i raro nei e whakamārama ana he aha ngā taunakitanga hei whakaatu māhau, e uru ai koe ki Aotearoa. He tere te panoni o ngā tautuhinga - mā Immigration New Zealand e tuku i ngā mōhiohio hou rawa. Te haere ki Aotearoa | Immigration New Zealand (external link) Ka taea e ngā kirirarau o Aotearoa me ētahi atu tāngata e māraurau ana te kuhu mai ki Aotearoa, ā, me te whakamātautau anō i a koe i tō taenga mai. Ki te tiro mēnā e māraurau ana koe, haere ki te pae tukutuku a Immigration New Zealand. Ko te nuinga o ngā tāngata haere ki Aotearoa me whiwhi i ngā pota katoa o tētahi kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 kua whakaaetia, ahakoa tērā ētahi aweretanga. I mua i te haere, me tiro kei te mana tonu tō uruwhenua. Tērā pea me tono koe i tētahi New Zealand Electronic Travel Authority (NZeTA). Tirohia mēnā e māraurau ana koe ki te haere ki Aotearoa | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Ngā herenga kano ārai mate  me ngā kano ārai mate kua whakaaetia Me tono i tētahi NZeTA | immigration.govt.nz (external link) Tāpuitia tō haerenga ki Aotearoa. Tirohia te kaupapahere a te kaikawe mō te kano ārai mate, ngā whakakorenga me ngā whakahokinga moni, hua noa kei mate koe ki te panoni i ō maheretanga. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te hoko i te inihua haere, hua noa kei pāngia ō whakaritenga hāereere. Me whai whakaaro hoki ki te tāpui i te wāhi noho hāngai mō te noho taratahi i te kāinga, ina hua ake tērā āhuatanga. Me whakaoti ngā tāngata haere katoa, i tētahi Whakapuakanga Hāereere o Aotearoa i mua i te haere ki Aotearoa. Kia oti ana, ka tukuna ki a koe tētahi Traveller Pass. Kia wawe tonu te whakarite i tō whakapuakanga. Ka taea e koe te whakakī haere i te 28 rā i mua i tō haerenga. Tīmataria tō whakapuakanga hāereere (external link) Rau mōhiohio whakapuakanga tangata haere (external link) Me whiwhi te nuinga o ngā tāngata haere i tētahi hua whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mua o te haere, e kī ana kāore e pāngia ana. Me whakarite i te tutukitanga o ō tuhinga whakamātautau i mua o te haere, i ngā paerewa o Aotearoa. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tā i te tātauira kei raro nei ki te whakarite kei te tuku ngā mātanga hauora e tirotiro ana i tō whakamātautau, e whakarato ana rātou i ngā mōhiohio e hiahiatia ana. Tērā ētahi take e kore pea e ētahi tāngata e hiahia i tētahi whakamātautau i mua o te haere. Ka taea e koe te rapu i te rārangi o ngā take hāpono mō tētahi aweretanga whakamātautau i mua o te haere i raro nei. Ka hiahiatia pea kia whakaatu koe i ngā taunakitanga o tō aweretanga. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā herenga o te whakamātautau i mua o te haere Tīkina ake he tātauira whakamātautau KOWHEORI-19 i mua o te haere [PDF, 190 KB] E oti ai tō whakapuakanga haere, me whakarato koe i: ngā taipitopito uruwhenua ngā mōhiohio haere te whakaaturanga kano ārai mate (mēnā e hiahiatia ana) tō hītori haere mō ngā rā 14 kua hipa ngā taipitopito whakapā i Aotearoa ngā taipitopito whakapā ohotata te whakaaturanga o tētahi whakamātautau i mua i te wehenga - engari ia mēnā he aweretanga Tirohia anō ngā taipitopito kua tāurua e koe ki te whakapuakanga hāereere ki te whakarite mēnā e rite ana ki ō tuhinga ōkawa. Me whakaatu koe i tō Traveller Pass ina taki-mai koe ki te taunga rererangi, ā, me whakaatu hoki ki Te Mana Ārai o Aotearoa. Ka taea te tā, te roki rānei ki tō pūrere kawe. Me kawe tonu koe i ngā pepa hāngai kua oti i a koe te tuku ake ki te Whakapuakanga Hāereere o Aotearoa. Aratohu ki te tuku ake i ō taunakitanga (external link) Ka tonoa koe mēnā he tohumate KOWHEORI-19 āu, e te kaimahi waka rererangi. Mēnā e hāngai ana, me whiwhi koe i tō: uruwhenua kōkota tīkiti mō tō haerenga Traveller Pass kua oti te whakakī taunakitanga o tō tūnga kano ārai mate hua whakamātautau i mua o te wehenga e tohu ana kāore koe e pāngia ana. Mā te Mana Ārai o Aotearoa e manatoko i tō hītori hāereere, tō hua whakamātautau i mua o te wehenga, tō tūnga kano ārai mate, tō Traveller Pass, me ētahi atu herenga uru mai. Ka āhua roa pea te wā, i a koe e whakawhiti ana mā roto i te taunga rererangi. I te Haumaru koiora, ka tukuna ki a koe tētahi pūhera whakatau. Kei roto i tō pūhera whakatau: ngā Whakamātautau Ākipaturopi Tere he aratohu o te whakamātautau me te tuku atu i ō hua. Whakaotihia ō whakamātautau, ā, ka tuku atu i ō hua, i runga anō i ngā tohu. Ngā whakaritenga whakamātautau i muri i te taenga ki Aotearoa --- Section Separator --- Posters Alternate formats Translations عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese عربي | Arabic 简体中文 | Chinese (Simplified) 繁體中文 | Chinese (Traditional) Te Reo Māori Kuki ‘Āirani | Cook Islands Māori فارسی | Farsi Vosa Vakaviti | Fijian Français | French ગુજરાતી | Gujarati हिन्दी / Hindi 日本語 | Japanese Te taetae ni Kiribati | Kiribati 한국어 | Korean Vagahau Niue | Niuean ਪੰਜਾਬੀ / Punjabi Fäeag Rotuḁm | Rotuman Gagana Samoa | Samoan Af-Soomaali | Somali Español | Spanish Tagalog தமிழ் | Tamil Te reo Māori ภาษาไทย | Thai Te Gagana Tokelau | Tokelauan Lea Faka Tonga | Tongan Te Gana Tuvalu | Tuvaluan اُردُو | Urdu Tiếng Việt | Vietnamese
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Ko tā te kano ārai mate he tiaki i ō tamariki, tō whānau me tō hapori. He kore utu te kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, e wātea ana ki ngā tāngata katoa kei tua i te 5 tau te pakeke. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate Rapu me pēhea te whiwhi taunakitanga o ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa i te wā e whakawhiti ana ki tāwāhi Rapua he kōrero mō te tuku kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti hei ārai atu i te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate Rapu me pēhea te whiwhi taunakitanga o ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa i te wā e whakawhiti ana ki tāwāhi Rapua he kōrero mō te tuku kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti hei ārai atu i te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- E whakarato ana mātou i te whānuitanga huhua o ngā rauemi tautoko pakihi, wāhi mahi, hapori me ngā whakahaere ki te whakatinana i ngā whakaritenga o te Pou Tarāwaho Ārai KOWHEORI-19. Ka taea e koe te tikiake me te tārua i ā mātou tohu, tātauira, pānui, ataata me ngā papariki pae pāhopori i tā mātou Keteparaha Rauemi.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te whai i te kano ārai i a KOWHEORI-19 | Getting your COVID-19 vaccine Rapua he kōrero mō ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 i Aotearoa, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi kano ārai mate --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti o ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei āhea whiwhi i tētahi, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi. Rapua ngā wāhi e taea ai e koe ngā mōhiohio pono mō te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate Pfizer, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō te kano ārai mate AstraZeneca, ā, me pēhea tō whiwhi kano ārai mate. Rapua he kōrero mō ngā pota āpiti o ngā kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei āhea whiwhi i tētahi, ā, me pēhea te whiwhi. Rapua ngā wāhi e taea ai e koe ngā mōhiohio pono mō te KOWHEORI-19
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Te hāpono i tō whiwhi kano ārai mate | Proving you are vaccinated Rapu me pēhea te whiwhi taunakitanga o ngā whiwhinga kano ārai mate hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa i te wā e whakawhiti ana ki tāwāhi --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te whakamahi i te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record, te wāhi e taea ai e koe te whakauru atu ki ngā mōhiohio mō tō pūkete KOWHEORI-19. Ko Taku Tohu Ārai Mate he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Rapu me pēhea te whakaatu i tō taunakitanga tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ina haere koe ki tāwāhi. He taupānga koreutu te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ka taea e ngā umanga, ngā taiopenga me ngā huihuinga te whakamahi hei matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai. --- Section Separator --- Rapua he kōrero mō te whakamahi i te pae tukutuku o My Covid Record, te wāhi e taea ai e koe te whakauru atu ki ngā mōhiohio mō tō pūkete KOWHEORI-19. Ko Taku Tohu Ārai Mate he pūkete ōkawa o tō tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19, hei whakamahinga i Aotearoa. Rapu me pēhea te whakaatu i tō taunakitanga tūnga kano ārai mate KOWHEORI-19 ina haere koe ki tāwāhi. He taupānga koreutu te Manatoko Kōkota o Aotearoa ka taea e ngā umanga, ngā taiopenga me ngā huihuinga te whakamahi hei matawai i ngā Kōkota Kano Ārai.
Home Languages and resources Translations Te reo Māori Ngā kano ārai mate | Vaccines Ngā werohanga mō ngā tamariki | Vaccinations for children Rapua he kōrero mō te tuku kano ārai mate ki tō tamaiti hei ārai atu i te KOWHEORI-19 --- Section Separator --- Te Kaupapa Tuku Kano Ārai Mate KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka puta pea i te kano ārai mate Pfizer he pānga kino ki ētahi tamariki. Koinei tonu te urupare a te tinana, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te mahi te kano ārai mate. --- Section Separator --- Te Kaupapa Tuku Kano Ārai Mate KOWHEORI-19 mā ngā tamariki 5 ki te 11 tau Pērā i ngā rongoā katoa, ka puta pea i te kano ārai mate Pfizer he pānga kino ki ētahi tamariki. Koinei tonu te urupare a te tinana, ā, e whakaatu ana kei te mahi te kano ārai mate.
Home News and data Keep up to date with Aotearoa New Zealand’s response to COVID-19. What you need to know Vaccination rates around NZ Media conferences Traffic lights map Latest case numbers --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. --- Section Separator --- The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Follow us on social media, sign up to get the latest updates, and resources for social media and digital media. The Government publicly releases documents relating to decisions about its response to COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned someone is not following the rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Report a breach online
Home News and data Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Access the latest data. Data and statistics available COVID-19 cases Vaccine data COVID-19 data portal COVID-19 modelling reports Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 June 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 96% Eligible population 12+ with 1 dose 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 95% Eligible population 12+ with 2 doses 263,480 Paediatric first doses administered (5 to 11) 263,480 Paediatric first doses administered (5 to 11) 127,855 Paediatric second doses administered (5 to 11) 127,855 Paediatric second doses administered (5 to 11) 2,668,212 Booster doses administered (16+) 2,668,212 Booster doses administered (16+) --- Section Separator --- Check our vaccinations map to find out how many people in your DHB or small area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- This data is updated every weekday, except public holidays. For weekend case numbers visit the Ministry of Health website: Latest news | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 June 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19 and testing in New Zealand. This includes: Current COVID-19 cases COVID-19 case demographics Source of COVID-19 cases Testing for COVID-19 We update this data every weekday. For weekend case numbers, visit the Ministry of Health website: Latest news | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 data and statistics | health.govt.nz (external link) 352 Cases in hospital 352 Cases in hospital 4,413 New community cases 4,413 New community cases 68 Cases recently arrived from overseas 68 Cases recently arrived from overseas 41,433 Active community cases 41,433 Active community cases --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 June 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and COVID-19 related deaths. COVID-19 related deaths include: people whose cause of death was not COVID-19 but they had COVID-19 when they died people whose cause of death is still under investigation. COVID-19 current cases data | health.govt.nz (external link) 5 COVID-19 related deaths reported in the last 24 hours 5 COVID-19 related deaths reported in the last 24 hours 1,267 People who have died within 28 days of testing positive for COVID-19 1,267 People who have died within 28 days of testing positive for COVID-19 1,325 Total number of publicly reported COVID-19 related deaths 1,325 Total number of publicly reported COVID-19 related deaths --- Section Separator --- Last updated 13 June 2022 at 1:00 pm The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Testing for COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) 8,456 RATs reported in last 24 hours 8,456 RATs reported in last 24 hours 2,157 PCR tests in last 24 hours 2,157 PCR tests in last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | stats.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health publishes a series of modelling reports, which help us understand the future health impact of COVID-19 in New Zealand. COVID-19 modelling reports | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If the data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and the ability to request more-detailed COVID-19 data if you are a researcher. COVID-19 data resources | health.govt.nz (external link)
Displaying 1-10 of 985 updates 13 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 10 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 09 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 08 Jun 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1.30pm. 08 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 07 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 02 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 Jun 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 31 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
This means that most of the deaths that have now been publicly announced have been assessed as either having COVID-19 as the underlying cause, contributing to the death, or unrelated to the death. As of this morning: 447 people have died with COVID-19 as the underlying cause of death. Of these, 439 died within 28 days of being reported as a case. 231 people have died with COVID-19 as a contributing cause of death. Of these, 229 died within 28 days of being reported as a case. 161 people, all of whom died within 28 days of being reported as a case, had a cause of death unrelated to COVID-19 138 people who died within 28 days of being reported as a case have yet to be classified. In some instances, the cause of death can take longer to determined, including if it is being investigated by a coroner. Our thoughts are with everyone who has lost a loved one from COVID-19. While there has been a significant increase in the number of deaths from COVID-19 since the start of the Omicron outbreak, New Zealand has still experienced significantly lower cumulative COVID-19 mortality than most countries. These deaths are a sobering reminder that, while most people with COVID-19 will experience a mild to moderate illness, for some people it can lead to severe illness and even death. There are three actions everyone can do to help protect themselves and others from COVID-19 and potentially save lives. Be up to date with vaccinations, including a booster if you have not yet had one. Get your COVID-19 vaccination Masks are still required in many indoor settings. A good rule of thumb is to wear a mask in indoor public settings as we know that mask use halves the risk of spread of COVID-19. When you need to wear a face mask Stay home and avoid others if you are unwell, isolating or waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test. The Ministry of Health will continue to update information about deaths of people with COVID-19, including the cause of death, on their website. COVID-19 case demographics | health.govt.nz (external link)
The COVID-19 media briefing starts at 1.30pm. Speakers: Ministry of Health Chief Science Advisor Dr Ian Town Ministry of Health Chief Testing Advisor Kirsten Beynon Ministry of Health Lead Science Advisor Dr Fiona Callaghan
The new Statistics NZ figures provide a measure of the overall rate of deaths in New Zealand during the pandemic compared to pre-pandemic years. It is not a measure of people known to have died from COVID-19 and reflects all causes of deaths during this time. Comparing the actual number of deaths in New Zealand since the start of the pandemic with the expected number of deaths during that period, based on earlier years’ figures, shows fewer deaths than expected. We recognise the pain of losing a family member or friend, and do not wish to diminish that, but it is welcome that this data, which is the best measure we have to date, shows there was not a higher-than-normal death rate in New Zealand over the first two years of the pandemic. This reflected the benefits of our COVID-19 response in reducing exposure to the virus and protecting our more vulnerable New Zealanders and a decision to implement a nationwide response coordinated from the centre. Vaccination has played a key role, along with border and isolation measures, in keeping people safe from the more deadly variants of COVID-19 by keeping them out of the community or significantly limiting their spread. It also reflects our ability to continue to provide non COVID-19-related health services and procedures to the public, which many other countries had to severely curtail. For instance, if New Zealand had a similar rate of COVID-19 mortality as the United States, we would be reporting approximately 15,000 deaths from COVID-19 today. Despite doing better than most countries, these deaths are a reminder that, while most people with COVID-19 will experience a mild to moderate illness, for some people it can lead to severe illness and even death. Being up to date with vaccinations, wearing a mask indoors and staying home if unwell can help protect themselves and others from COVID-19 and potentially save lives. Excess mortality contributes to our overall picture of the toll of the pandemic, including any changes in mortality that are directly or indirectly due to the pandemic. The Statistics New Zealand measures, in conjunction with previous research, indicate that: In 2020, the first year of the pandemic, the proportion of people that died in New Zealand dropped for reasons including a reduction in accident-related deaths and the closed borders greatly reducing influenza and other respiratory in New Zealand in 2020. In 2021, the second year of the pandemic, the rate of deaths followed a similar pattern to that seen in 2019 prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, though deaths from COVID-19 were low. In 2020 and 2021, the rate of deaths among people over-90-years-old, the population among the most at risk from COVID-19, remained the same or even lower than expected compared with most other countries. Again, this reflected the benefits of our COVID-19 response in reducing exposure to the virus and protecting our more vulnerable New Zealanders. Sadly, during the Omicron outbreak we have seen an increase in the rate of deaths among people over 90 compared to pre-pandemic years. However, to put these numbers in context, the mortality rate in the 90+ group in the last few weeks is still lower than the average pre-pandemic peak mortality for this age group that we normally see during the winter months. This measure provides a useful indication of the impact of COVID-19 on overall death rates but cannot by itself indicate how many people have died from COVID-19. An important distinction to make is that people can die with COVID-19 as the direct cause, or COVID-19 may be a contributing factor alongside other health conditions, or the cause of death may be unrelated to COVID-19, even if the person has returned a positive test recently. The Ministry of Health has released updated information on this topic this morning. Covid-19 deaths reporting update
We know that face masks are a crucial part of our defence against the spread of COVID-19 and using them will continue to help protect loved ones and save lives. The new process is being introduced to make sure people who have genuine reasons for not being able to wear a mask have more certainty in being able to demonstrate that. For the business community, the new cards will mean evidence that a person with the new card is exempt from the requirement to wear a mask, removing uncertainty that businesses have been dealing with. We have recognised that for some people an impairment, health conditions, a physical disability or mental health reasons can mean wearing a mask isn’t possible. These reasons are not always obvious or easy to explain and that has left some New Zealanders who are genuinely unable to wear a mask not being able to access the businesses and services they normally would. It has also meant uncomfortable situations, with people needing to explain private health information to strangers, when they are trying to do basic tasks like shopping. We have worked hard to find a solution which avoids this. The new process will be administered by the Ministry of Health and allows people who cannot wear a mask to get a personalised card to help them access businesses and services where wearing a mask is required. The new card will also help businesses. Sadly, in attempting to verify whether people are genuinely exempt, workers — especially those in retail settings such as supermarkets — have experienced escalating and unsafe behaviour from some customers. This new process gives assurance that when someone presents this card, they are genuinely exempt. COVID-19 Orders will be amended to provide that the new card is conclusive proof that someone is exempt. The new cards will be entirely optional — but they will be legally recognised as conclusive proof of a person’s exempt status, which the old cards are not. We will not be cancelling the old cards or requiring affected people to go through the process of getting a new card if they do not want to, however the old cards will not have the legitimacy of the new cards. From the end of May, people will be able to apply for a card through the Ministry of Health website and it will be issued to them digitally or by post. An 0800 call free number will be available, and it will also cater for those who need interpreter or translation services when requesting their card. Mask wearing remains an important public health measure to reduce the likelihood of COVID-19 transmission and keep us all safe. It is important we all understand that for some people wearing a face mask is difficult. This includes people with physical, intellectual or mental health impairments, and people (such as some victims of violent crime) who have experienced past trauma. Those people should still have the same right as others to access good and services. This policy change promotes this important message, and also creates a new approach to accessing exemptions through the Ministry of Health. What has been developed through extensive consultation is a balanced approach which is accessible for exempt people, gives businesses certainty and also makes it harder for others who might try to undermine the process. People unable to wear a mask and who already have a non-personalised exemption card issued by the Ministry of Health or the Disabled Persons Assembly, can continue using that card. Both the new personalised cards and existing non-personalised cards issued by the Ministry of Health are optional as an aid to avoiding discrimination. The difference is that the old cards do not have legal standing and can be questioned. The new cards will provide proof of exemption. If they are questioned, the person questioning them will be at risk of triggering the duties and obligations under the Human Rights Act that protect disabled people (noting that this is defined very broadly in the Human Rights Act) Both the new personalised exemption cards and existing non-personalised exemption cards from the Ministry of Health or the Disabled Persons Assembly are optional for people who are exempt as an aid to them in avoiding discrimination. Exempt persons continue to have the same rights of access to businesses and services irrespective of their optional use of an exemption card. The new cards should be accepted by businesses because they have clear legal status as proof of exemption. Businesses continue to have a right to deny entry to people who are threatening or behaving inappropriately People who fraudulently misuse the process will be in breach of a COVID-19 Order under the COVID-19 (Public Health Response) Act 2020
With New Zealand expecting to see Omicron cases rise during the winter, the Orange traffic light setting remains appropriate for managing this stage of the outbreak. While daily cases numbers have flattened nationally, they are again beginning to increase in the Northern region. Hospitalisation rates have also increased slightly over the past month. In addition, the latest COVID-19 modelling indicates that under current conditions, there is a likelihood of a secondary wave of cases appearing. The COVID-19 Protection Framework (CPF) has effectively managed the Omicron outbreak at Orange. By following public health advice to remain at that setting, we can maintain some protections while ensuring businesses can continue to operate Everyone should continue to be cautious and think about the health of others, especially those who are immunocompromised or at higher risk of long-term health impacts from infection. Please also get boosted, if you have not already. Self-isolation, vaccination and wearing a face mask continue to be our main defences against COVID-19. You will need to continue wearing a face mask in many indoor settings. It is encouraging to see case numbers remain steady, but there are other factors at play that tell us to remain cautious and not yet move to Green. These include the arrival of new strains of colds and flus, which will add to the workloads of our already busy hospitals. The next review of the traffic light settings will be in late June. Life at Orange Wear a face mask
People who are at high risk of getting very sick from a COVID-19 infection will soon be eligible to receive a second booster. This follows a recommendation from the Ministry of Health’s COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group that a second booster dose may be beneficial for those most at risk of serious illness from COVID-19 and with a gap of 6 months from their previous booster. The vast majority of these people become eligible from July. A booster is important for our most vulnerable as we move into the winter peak. Several hundred thousand people will be eligible, which includes: our older population residents of aged care facilities disability care facilities aged 16 years and over severely immunocompromised people aged 16 years and over and who have received a three-dose primary course and a first booster. Final decisions on the make-up of this group will be made within the next 2 weeks. The Government is working urgently to enable the second booster to be made available in the same way as the primary course and booster — that is, without needing to access a doctor. This will be more equitable and make the roll-out to our at-risk groups more effective. The Medicines Act will be amended to do this, with the new policy in effect from mid-June, in good time for the vast majority of eligible people. If you are eligible but have had COVID-19, you will need to wait at least 3 months after your infection before having an additional dose. Based on current advice, for those who are not at risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a 2-dose primary course and a booster dose provides very good and lasting protection, which is why we can be more targeted in the rollout of the second booster. We know a booster helps reduce the chance of more serious infection, and it will be less likely that you need hospitalisation. If you have not had your first booster yet, it is not too late to get it in time for the winter season. The Ministry of Health’s COVID-19 Vaccine Technical Advisory Group will continue to review new information on COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccines and will make further recommendations if necessary.
This new process is for employers who have mandated workers who have recently recovered from or tested positive for COVID-19 and are therefore eligible for a temporary medical exemption. Now, the employer recognises and administer their workers’ exemption from vaccination for 100 days on the verification of a positive COVID-19 test. To verify a positive COVID-19 test, an employer can view: a screen shot of a My Covid Record that displays the PCR or uploaded Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) result, a hard copy of a laboratory report, or a text notification of the positive test result. The employer must confirm in writing the exemption details to the affected worker. This includes the start and end dates of the exemption. The start date is date of the positive test. The confirmation of the exemption can be made by the owner, Chief Executive or equivalent. They may also delegate this to a senior person within the business unit or service, such as HR Manager. The employer is required to provide Ministry of Health total numbers of exempted workers on a quarterly basis (20 January, 20 April, 20 July, 20 October). This information should be emailed to HealthOrders@health.govt.nz. Only one exemption can be recognised by a business unit or service for an affected worker. If a worker subsequently tests positive for COVID-19 after recovery from the first illness, that worker will need to apply again to the Ministry of Health via a medical or nurse practitioner.
8,182 new community cases 373 cases in hospital 48,236 active community cases 15,020 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,519 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 8,182 community cases, 373 current hospitalisations, and 13 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,893 — last Wednesday, it was 7,308. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 13 people with COVID-19 who have died in the past 5 days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,185 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 4 were from the Auckland region, 2 were from Canterbury, and 1 each from Bay of Plenty, Tairāwhiti, Hawke’s Bay, Hutt Valley, Capital and Coast, Nelson Marlborough, and Southern. One person was in their 40s, 2 were in their 70s, 5 were in their 80s, and 5 were aged over 90. Of these people, 6 were female and 7 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
6,297 new community cases 42,517 active community cases --- Section Separator --- Note: Due to a technical issue, hospitalisation, death and testing numbers are currently unavailable. Today’s statement will be updated as soon as this information becomes available. Today we are reporting 6,297 community cases. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,075 – last Friday it was 6,850. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
4,413 new community cases 352 cases in hospital 41,433 active community cases 8,456 total RATs reported 2,157 total PCR tests --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 5 people with COVID-19. All these people died within the past 5 days. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,325 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today, 2 were from the Auckland region, 1 from Waikato, 1 from Bay of Plenty, and 1 from Canterbury. One person was in their 60s, 2 were in their 70s, 1 was in their 80s, and 1 was aged over 90. Of these people, 2 were women and 3 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
9,843 new community cases 421 cases in hospital 54,550 active community cases 18,949 total RATs in the last 24 hours 4,442 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 9,843 community cases, 421 hospitalisations and 8 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 7,795 — last Tuesday it was 7,927. Today the Ministry of Health is reminding people who test for COVID-19 at home with a rapid antigen test (RAT) to report the test result. You should report the results of your RAT, whether you test positive or negative. You can do this online through My Covid Record (external link) . If you are having trouble using My Covid Record, you can report the results of your RAT over the phone by calling 0800 222 478 and choosing option 3. RATs are currently Aotearoa New Zealand’s primary testing tool for people with COVID-19 symptoms or Household Contacts. How to report your RAT results Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 8 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 986 and the seven-day rolling average of reported deaths is 16. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 3 people were from the Southern region; 2 were from Auckland, 2 were from Northland, and 1 was from Canterbury. 1 person was in their 60s, 4 people were in their 70s, and 3 were aged over 90. Of these people, 4 were women and 4 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
9,570 new community cases 425 cases in hospital 56,146 active community cases 17,429 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,579 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 9,570 community cases, 425 hospitalisations and 32 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of community case numbers is 8,024 — last Wednesday it was 7,533. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 32 people with COVID-19. The total number of deaths is up by 31 from yesterday as we have removed a case which had been previous reported twice. This case was initially reported on 10 March. The deaths being reported today include people who have died over the previous 6 weeks, since 5 April. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,017 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 17. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 2 people were from Northland, 9 from the Auckland region, 2 from Bay of Plenty, 2 from Taranaki, 1 from Tairawhiti, 4 from MidCentral, 2 from Hawke’s Bay, 3 from the Wellington region, 1 from Nelson-Marlborough, 4 from Canterbury and 2 from Southern. One person was in their 20s, 4 people were in their 40s, 2 in their 50s, 4 in their 60s, 9 in their 70s, 9 in their 80s and 3 were aged over 90. Of these people, 10 were women and 22 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
9,091 new community cases 411 cases in hospital 55,852 active community cases 16,961 total RATs in the last 24 hours 4,736 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 9,091 community cases, 411 hospitalisations and 5 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,981 — last Thursday it was 7,533. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 5 people with COVID-19, all of whom have died in the past 2 days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,022 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 16. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 1 was from the Wellington region, 1 from Bay of Plenty, and 3 from Southern. 1 person was in their seventies, and 4 people were in their 80s. Of these people, 4 were women and 1 was a man. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
7,870 new community cases 393 cases in hospital 48,544 active community cases 14,405 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,742 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 7,870 community cases, 393 current hospitalisations, and 13 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,937 — last Thursday, it was 7,095. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 13 people with COVID-19 — 11 deaths were in the past 48 hours and 2 were in January this year. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,197 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. One previously announced death has been removed from our totals, as it was reclassified as not a COVID-19 case. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 4 were from the Auckland region, 4 were from Canterbury, 2 from Southern, and 1 each from Taranaki, Hawke’s Bay, and Wellington. Four people were in their 60s, 1 was in their 70s, 5 were in their 80s, and 3 were aged over 90. Of these people, 7 were male and 6 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
7,800 new community cases 401 cases in hospital 56,200 active community cases 15,048 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,786 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 7,800 community cases, 401 hospitalisations and 17 deaths. The seven-day rolling average of community case numbers is 8,032 – last Friday it was 7,548. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 17 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,039 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today — 3 were from the Auckland region, 3 were from the Wellington region, 2 were from Northland, 2 were from Canterbury, 2 were from the Southern region, and 1 each from Waikato, Tairāwhiti, Mid Central, Hawke’s Bay, and Nelson Marlborough. 1 person was in their 50s, 1 was in their 60s, 4 were in their 70s, 5 were in their 80s and 6 were over 90. Of these people, 13 were women and 4 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them at this time. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
6,000 new community cases 363 cases in hospital 53,964 active community cases 11,160 total RATs in the last 24 hours 2,197 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 6,000 community cases, 363 hospitalisations and 9 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,712 — last Monday it was 7,702. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 9 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,064 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 1 was from the Auckland region, 2 were from Taranaki, 2 were from Bay of Plenty, 2 were from Wellington and 2 were from Canterbury. One person was in their 30s, 3 were in their 80s and 5 were aged over 90. Of these people, 8 were female and 1 was male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
8,435 new community cases 327 cases in hospital 52,527 active community cases 17,264 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,326 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 8,435 community cases, 327 hospitalisations and 15 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers is 7,507 — last Tuesday it was 7,795. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 15 people with COVID-19, all of whom died in the past 4 days. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,079 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 3 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 1 was from Taranaki, 2 were from the Wellington region, 1 was from Nelson-Marlborough, 4 were from Canterbury and 3 were from Southern. One person was in their 40s, 2 were in their 60s, 1 was in their 70s, 3 were in their 80s and 8 were aged over 90. Of these people, 9 were female and 6 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
8,150 new community cases 368 cases in hospital 51,133 active community cases 16,430 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,501 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 8,150 community cases, 368 hospitalisations and 11 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 7,308 — last Wednesday, it was 8,024. We are today reporting our first case of the Omicron subvariant BA.2.12.1 in a community case, without a clear link to the border, in Hawke’s Bay from a test result returned on 10 May 2022. This Omicron subvariant is prevalent in the USA and has been detected at our border for many weeks — there have been 29 imported cases reported since April, so its movement into the community is not unexpected. Emerging data suggests BA.2.12.1 is marginally more transmissible than the subvariants currently circulating in Aotearoa New Zealand. Our genomic surveillance (genomes and wastewater) remains in place to study any new variants and track their spread. The public health settings already in place to manage other Omicron variants are assessed to be appropriate for managing subvariants present in our community and no changes are required. Meanwhile, the Omicron BA.4 and/or BA.5 subvariants have been detected in wastewater samples at Rosedale on Auckland’s North Shore and in Gisborne. The presence of these subvariants in the community is also not unexpected. The BA.4 and BA.5 subvariants are being monitored by the World Health Organization. To date, compared to BA.2, there is clinical data to suggest increased transmissibility but no data suggesting it causes more severe illness. As with all variants of Omicron, public health advice remains the same. Getting your booster remains one of the best defences against COVID-19. Wear a mask indoors, stay home if you are unwell, get tested if you are symptomatic, and get vaccinated. The vast majority of recently sequenced cases in New Zealand continue to be of the Omicron BA.2 sub-variant, with a small number of cases with the BA.1 sub-variant. We are continuing to monitor the transmission of all variants across the country and internationally. These latest detections emphasise the importance of continued wastewater testing, as increasingly ESR sequencing is able to refine what its testing detects. The sequencing can determine that either BA.4 or BA.5 subvariant or both may be present but is not able to be more specific at this stage. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 11 people with COVID-19. The deaths being reported today are for people who have died in the past 10 days, apart from 1 death on 6 May and 1 death on 11 April. Delays in reporting can be associated with people dying with COVID-19, rather than from COVID-19, and COVID being discovered only after they have died. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,086 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 10. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 2 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 2 were from Taranaki, 1 was from Hawke’s Bay, 1 was from MidCentral, 3 were from Canterbury, and 1 was from Southern. One person was aged under 10, 1 was in their 30s, 1 was in their 60s, 1 was in their 70s, 3 were in their 80s, and 4 were aged over 90. Of these people, 6 were female and 5 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
7,591 new community cases 355 cases in hospital 49,645 active community cases 15,586 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,814 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 7,591 community cases, 355 hospitalisations and 16 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 7,095 — last Thursday, it was 7,981. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 16 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,102 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 7 were from the Auckland region, 3 were from Canterbury, 3 were from the Wellington region, 1 was from Lakes, 1 was from Bay of Plenty, and 1 was from Southern. Two people were in their 60s, 2 were in their 70s, 8 were in their 80s, and 4 were aged over 90. Of these people, 9 were female and 7 were male. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
6,862 new community cases 350 cases in hospital 48,706 active community cases 14,198 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,365 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 6,862 community cases, 350 current hospitalisations and 25 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,960 – last Friday, it was 8,032. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 25 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,127 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 5 were from the Auckland region, 3 were from Northland, 1 was from Waikato, 1 was from Hawke's Bay, 9 were from Canterbury, 2 were from the Wellington region, 1 was from Midcentral, 1 was from Bay of Plenty, and 2 were from Southern. One person was in their 30s, 3 people were in their 40s, 4 were in their 50s, 2 people were in their 60s, 4 were in their 70s, 6 were in their 80s, and 5 were aged over 90. Of these people, 13 were female and 11 were male. The gender of 1 person was not reported. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
6,232 new community cases 390 cases in hospital 47,933 active community cases 12,563 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,038 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 6,232 community cases, 390 current hospitalisations, and 14 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,850 — last Friday, it was 6,960 Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 14 people with COVID-19. Thirteen people have died in the past 8 days, while we are also reporting the historical death of a case late in 2020. This case had recovered at the time of death but was recently classified as having COVID-19 as a contributory cause of their death. This will continue to happen occasionally due to the timing of the mortality coding process, particularly in instances where deaths where COVID-19 is a contributory cause, and the death falls outside of the 28 day period of testing positive for COVID. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,210 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 1 was from Northland; 3 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Taranaki; 1 from Whanganui; 1 from the Wellington region; 1 from Nelson-Marlborough; 4 from Canterbury; 1 from South Canterbury and 1 from Southern. Two people were in their 60s; 3 in 70s; 3 in their 80s and 6 were aged over 90. Of these people, 4 were women and 10 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. We are today reporting 4 cases of the Omicron subvariant BA.5 and 1 case of the subvariant BA.4 in the community, all based on whole genome sequencing of tests. These are the first BA.4 and BA.5 cases reported in the community, with no clear link to the border. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
5,836 new community cases 403 cases in hospital 48,153 active community cases 10,526 total RATs in the last 24 hours 2,261 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 5,836 new community cases, 403 current hospitalisations, and 5 deaths in the past 3 days. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,881 — last Monday, it was 7,712. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 5 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,154 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 13. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 2 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Taranaki, 1 from Canterbury, and 1 was the Southern region. One person was in their 70s, 3 were in their 80s and 1 was over 90. Of these people, 3 were male and 2 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
8,436 new community cases 389 cases in hospital 48,179 active community cases 17,205 total RATs in the last 24 hours 3,099 total PCR tests in the last 24 hours --- Section Separator --- Today we are reporting 8,436 new community cases, 389 current hospitalisations, and 18 deaths. The 7-day rolling average of community case numbers today is 6,885 — last Monday, it was 7,507. Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 18 people with COVID-19. These deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,172 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today; 3 were from Northland, 2 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 1 was from Taranaki, 2 were from Midcentral, 2 from Nelson Marlborough, 3 from Canterbury, 2 from West Coast and 2 from the Southern region. One person was in their 50s, 2 were in their 60s, 1 was in their 70s, 8 were in their 80s and 6 were over 90. Of these people, 10 were male and 8 were female. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Over the past 2 days, there have been: 10,191 new community cases 371 cases in hospital 43,398 active community cases In the last 24 hours, there have been: 10,442 total RATs reported 2,059 total PCR tests --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 14 people with COVID-19. Today’s reported deaths include 7 recorded yesterday and 7 recorded today. They take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,243 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 10. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today: 1 was from Northland; 2 were from the Auckland region; 1 was from Waikato; 1 was from Taranaki; 5 were from Canterbury and 4 were from the Southern region. Two people were in their 50s; 1 was in their 60s; 4 were in their 70s; 5 were in their 80s and 2 were aged over 90. Of these people, 8 were men and 6 were women. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
7,050 new community cases 361 cases in hospital 42,233 active community cases 13,413 total RATs reported 2,825 total PCR tests --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 24 people with COVID-19. Twelve of these people have died in the past 4 days, and 12 have died since 25 April. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,267 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 12. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today: 2 were from Northland; 6 were from the Auckland region, 1 was from Waikato, 2 were from Bay of Plenty, 1 was from Lakes DHB area, 1 from Taranaki; 1 from Hawke’s Bay; 1 from MidCentral, 1 from the Wellington region; 3 from Canterbury; 5 from Southern. Three people were in their 50s; 2 in their 60s, 5  in 70s; 7 in their 80s and 7 were aged over 90. Of these people, 10 were women and 14 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
7,927 new community cases 393 cases in hospital 42,398 active community cases 15,095 total RATs reported 4,582 total PCR tests --- Section Separator --- Today we are sadly reporting the deaths of 27 people with COVID-19. Twenty-two of these people have died in the past 5 days, and 5 have died since 29 March. Today’s reported deaths take the total number of publicly reported deaths with COVID-19 to 1,294 and the 7-day rolling average of reported deaths is 14. Of the people whose deaths we are reporting today: 9 were from the Auckland region, 3 were from Waikato, 1 was from Lakes DHB area, 1 from Taranaki; 1 from MidCentral, 5 from the Wellington region; 1 from Nelson-Marlborough; 4 from Canterbury and 2 from the Southern region. One person was in their 40s; 2 in their 60s, 7 in 70s; 9 in their 80s and 8 were aged over 90. Of these people, 14 were women and 13 were men. This is a very sad time for whānau and friends and our thoughts and condolences are with them. Out of respect, we will be making no further comment on these deaths. Read the full update on today's cases | health.govt.nz (external link)
Displaying 11-20 of 985 updates 30 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 May 2022 A second booster is recommended for the most vulnerable 6 months after the first booster. Several hundred thousand people will be eligible. 26 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 25 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 24 May 2022 Orange is the most appropriate setting to manage the Omicron outbreak as we head into winter. 23 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 20 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 19 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 21-30 of 985 updates 18 May 2022 The Ministry of Health has expedited the process for formally coding the cause of death for those who are known to have died within 28 days of COVID-19. 18 May 2022 The Government has welcomed data showing the rate at which New Zealanders died from all causes during the COVID-19 pandemic has been lower than expected. 18 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 17 May 2022 Workers subject to the Vaccinations Order who test positive for COVID-19 for the first time, can get a temporary medical exemption from getting a booster dose. 17 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 16 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 13 May 2022 Winter is just around the corner and with it, a risk of catching COVID-19 again. See the latest guidance. 13 May 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 13 May 2022 If you are up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccinations you can download an updated My Vaccine Pass from 24 May. 12 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 31-40 of 985 updates 11 May 2022 New Zealand’s border will reopen to all tourists and visa holders from 11:59pm 31 July 2022. 11 May 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 10 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 06 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 05 May 2022 From today, tamariki aged 5 to 11 who are severely immunocompromised can receive a third primary dose of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. 04 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 03 May 2022 The Government is broadening the ability for residence class visa holders to re-enter New Zealand. 02 May 2022 From 11:59pm 2 May, people currently permitted to arrive via the maritime border do not need to quarantine or isolate for 7 days.
Displaying 41-50 of 985 updates 02 May 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 01 May 2022 The Government is partnering with Air New Zealand to trial an innovative new COVID-19 testing solution that uses Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification (LAMP). 29 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 28 Apr 2022 New Zealanders who contract COVID-19 now have access to 6 medicines proven to safely prevent the most severe and life-threatening symptoms of the virus. 28 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. 27 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 27 Apr 2022 People who have genuine reasons for not being able to wear a face mask can access a new personalised exemption card from the end of May. 26 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 22 Apr 2022 Post Vaccine Symptom Check survey results show that most tamariki aged 5 to 11 did not experience a reaction after getting the child Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. 22 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 51-60 of 985 updates 21 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 20 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 20 Apr 2022 The Board has published an interim report about its findings on the safety data for the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. 19 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 14 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health. 13 Apr 2022 Watch today's decision on our traffic light settings at 1pm. 13 Apr 2022 Kiwis can enjoy the long weekend with greater freedoms across the country from 11:59pm on Wednesday as New Zealand moves to Orange. 12 Apr 2022 Watch the latest update on our response to COVID-19 at 1pm. 11 Apr 2022 The COVID-19 Vaccine Independent Safety Monitoring Board has notified the Ministry of Health of a third death in New Zealand linked to the Pfizer vaccine. 11 Apr 2022 Read today's update on COVID-19 cases and Omicron from the Ministry of Health.
Displaying 941-950 of 985 updates 24 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 21 Aug 2020 On Monday 24 August a decision on the current Alert Levels will be made. This will affect the Alert Levels beyond 11:59pm 26 August. 21 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 20 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 19 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 18 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 17 Aug 2020 A Resurgence Wage Subsidy payment will be available from 1pm on 21 August 2020 for employers who are financially impacted by the resurgence of COVID-19. 17 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with the Director-General of Health. 16 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 15 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Displaying 951-960 of 985 updates 14 Aug 2020 Well done New Zealand. Do your bit. Start using the NZ COVID Tracer app today. 14 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 13 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conferences with government officials and ministers. 12 Aug 2020 12 Aug 2020 At 12 noon on Wednesday 12 August New Zealand's Alert Levels will change. 11 Aug 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers. 06 Aug 2020 The Ministry of Health has updated its advice on the use of face masks. 06 Aug 2020 The Government has confirmed a community-wide trial of CovidCard technology in Rotorua. 05 Aug 2020 The Bill allowing the Government to recover some costs for managed isolation and quarantine passed its third reading on 5 August 2020.
Displaying 961-970 of 985 updates 30 Jul 2020 A person has been caught unlawfully leaving a managed isolation facility in Auckland. 29 Jul 2020 The Government has announced a proposal to introduce new legislation to allow it to recover some of the costs for managed isolation and quarantine. 15 Jul 2020 The Government has unveiled a “Stamp it Out” plan for responding to new cases of COVID-19 in the community. 11 Jul 2020 Police are investigating an incident where a returnee in their late sixties absconded for a short period of time from an Auckland managed isolation facility. 10 Jul 2020 A man in his fifties is currently in Police custody after absconding from a Hamilton managed isolation facility. 08 Jul 2020 A 32-year-old man will be charged after briefly absconding from a managed isolation facility in Auckland yesterday evening. 07 Jul 2020 Bookings for seats on flights into New Zealand will be managed to ensure New Zealanders can be safely placed into a managed isolation or quarantine facility. 05 Jul 2020 A 43-year-old woman who absconded from a managed isolation facility in Auckland on Saturday evening is in police custody. 28 Jun 2020 The Government has released the review of managed isolation and quarantine. 26 Jun 2020 There is a robust system in place to safely welcome New Zealanders home, while keeping our communities protected.
Displaying 971-980 of 985 updates 25 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 24 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health, Dr Ashley Bloomfield, provided an update to the media at 1pm. 23 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 22 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 21 Jun 2020 Two new managed isolation facilities in Rotorua have been opened as more international flights arrive in New Zealand and stricter controls are put place. 20 Jun 2020 Air Commodore Darryn Webb, Head of Managed Isolation and Quarantine, has issued a media statement following today’s two positive COVID-19 test results. 20 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 19 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1.15pm. 18 Jun 2020 The Director-General of Health provided an update to the media at 1pm. 16 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health's Director-General of Health Dr Ashley Bloomfield provided an update to the media at 3pm.
Displaying 981-985 of 985 updates 11 Jun 2020 The Ministry of Health is continuing to publish updates on New Zealand’s COVID-19 cases. 09 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials. 09 Jun 2020 The Government has announced that New Zealand can safely move out of Alert Level 2 at 11:59pm on Monday 8 June. 09 Jun 2020 We've changed now that New Zealand has moved down to Alert Level 1. 08 Jun 2020 Watch today's media conference with government officials and ministers.
Home News and data Media conferences Watch the latest COVID-19 updates and media conferences. --- Section Separator --- Monday: There is no media conference. Tuesday: Media conference at 1pm. Wednesday, Thursday, Friday: There is no media conference. We will update this page if the schedule changes. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 media conference — 8 June 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 13 May 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 11 May 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 13 April 2022 COVID-19 media conference — 12 April 2022 --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health. Read today's update on COVID-19 cases from the Ministry of Health.
Home News and data Social media and newsletters --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) TikTok (external link) YouTube (external link) We are here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have 2 simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. Comments and messages submitted to our social media pages may be used for reporting purposes. Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Follow us on social media: Facebook (external link) Twitter (external link) Instagram (external link) LinkedIn (external link) TikTok (external link) YouTube (external link) We are here to answer your questions about the COVID-19 virus and the government response. We welcome your comments and interactions but we have 2 simple rules for a safe social community: Be respectful to others. In the interest of maintaining a safe space for all, harmful content will be hidden or removed. This includes misinformation, swearing, hate speech, trolling and spam. If harmful content is repeatedly posted, then you may be banned or blocked. Comments and messages submitted to our social media pages may be used for reporting purposes. --- Section Separator --- Get the latest updates about the Government's response to COVID-19. Sign up to COVID-19 updates (external link) Get the latest updates about COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Sign up to COVID-19 vaccine updates (external link) --- Section Separator --- Latest news Media conferences Data and statistics Map of COVID-19 vaccination rates in New Zealand Social media and newsletters Report a breach
Home Prepare and stay safe Protect yourself and others from COVID-19 by following the latest health advice and not sharing unreliable information. What you need to know When to wear a mask Check your symptoms Long COVID COVID-19 variants Mental health support Report false information --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants, symptoms, and what we know about Long COVID. Advice for people who are at higher risk of more severe illness if they get COVID-19. We all need to be prepared to self-isolate if we get COVID-19, or are a Household Contact. This checklist can help you and your whānau make a plan. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants, symptoms, and what we know about Long COVID. Advice for people who are at higher risk of more severe illness if they get COVID-19. We all need to be prepared to self-isolate if we get COVID-19, or are a Household Contact. This checklist can help you and your whānau make a plan. --- Section Separator --- Learn how you can help slow the spread of COVID-19 by keeping up healthy habits, like wearing a mask and staying home when sick. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency and you need urgent help, call 111 immediately even if you and your household are isolating. --- Section Separator --- Learn how you can help slow the spread of COVID-19 by keeping up healthy habits, like wearing a mask and staying home when sick. It is normal to feel anxious or stressed in times of difficulty. Learn how to stay mentally healthy and where to get help. Emergency services will operate at all traffic light settings. If there is an emergency and you need urgent help, call 111 immediately even if you and your household are isolating. --- Section Separator --- This section contains information for disabled people and people with impairments or underlying medical conditions and their whānau and communities. --- Section Separator --- Find the latest information and advice for whānau, hapū, and iwi Māori. --- Section Separator --- Find the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities, including translations. --- Section Separator --- Misinformation about COVID-19 works against us at a time when we need to work together to beat the spread of the virus.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 Information about COVID-19, including what it is, variants and symptoms. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Omicron is in our community. There are 3 phases to our response. Find out what this means for you. --- Section Separator --- Information about COVID-19 including where the virus came from, how it spreads, current variants of concern including Omicron, and treatments. What the COVID-19 symptoms are, including Long COVID, how fast they appear, and what to do if you have any symptoms. Omicron is in our community. There are 3 phases to our response. Find out what this means for you.
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. If you have COVID-19 COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely after 2 to 6 weeks, and make a full recovery within 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough sore throat chest tightness chest pain difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' difficulty sleeping pins and needles dizziness joint pain muscle pain. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster Post COVID-19 condition | who.int (external link) Long COVID | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Symptoms can include one or more of the following: a new or worsening cough sneezing and runny nose a fever temporary loss of smell or altered sense of taste sore throat shortness of breath fatigue/feeling of tiredness. Less common symptoms may include: diarrhoea headache muscle pain or body aches nausea vomiting malaise — a general feeling of discomfort, illness or unease chest pain abdominal pain joint pain confusion or irritability. These less common symptoms almost always occur with one or more of the common symptoms. These symptoms do not necessarily mean you have COVID-19. The symptoms are like other illnesses that are much more common, such as colds and flu. Shortness of breath is a sign of possible pneumonia and requires immediate medical attention. If you have any of these symptoms, contact your doctor, Healthline on 0800 358 5453 or your iwi health provider. Symptoms tend to arise around 2 to 5 days after a person is infected, but symptoms can take up to 14 days to show. A person with COVID-19 can pass it on to others from up to 2 days before showing symptoms. Sometimes people may have COVID-19, but not have any symptoms. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, get a test. Call: your doctor or nurse Healthline for free on 0800 358 5453 your iwi health provider, or a community-based testing location if you are outside New Zealand, call +64 9 358 5453 or your doctor. How to get a COVID-19 test If you test positive, you will not have to pay for any COVID-19 related medical costs. COVID-19 healthcare is free for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. While you have symptoms: Stay home. Do not go to work or school. Do not socialise. Wash your hands often. Sneeze and cough into your elbow, and disinfect shared surfaces often. If health authorities tell you to self-isolate, do so immediately. If you are waiting for test results you will also need to self-isolate. If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is usually spread from person to person. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs, sneezes or sings, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. Larger and heavier particles — droplets — quickly fall to the ground or other surfaces within seconds or minutes. Smaller particles — aerosols — can remain airborne for minutes to hours. Spread of the virus by aerosols appears to be more important than previously thought. The risk of airborne transmission becomes higher: in enclosed spaces that do not have good airflow in crowded places with many people nearby in close-contact settings, such as close-range conversations, singing, or shouting. The risk is lower outside, with fewer people, and if people are widely spread. --- Section Separator --- Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after the initial COVID-19 symptoms. This is usually longer than 12 weeks after a person is first infected. Most people who get COVID-19 recover completely after 2 to 6 weeks, and make a full recovery within 12 weeks. However, some people report a range of symptoms beyond the standard time of recovery. Symptoms of long COVID can persist for weeks or sometimes months. They can include: fatigue breathlessness cough sore throat chest tightness chest pain difficulty concentrating, cognitive impairment or 'brain fog' difficulty sleeping pins and needles dizziness joint pain muscle pain. For support with management and treatment of long COVID, seek help from your doctor or healthcare team. COVID-19 healthcare is fully funded for up to 6 weeks from the first day of your symptoms or the day you test positive, whichever is earlier. You can find more information about long COVID, including more commonly reported symptoms, on the Ministry of Health website: Long COVID | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Keeping up healthy habits can slow the spread of the virus and help protect you, your whānau, and your community from COVID-19, including variants. Even if you are vaccinated, you still need to keep up these habits. Healthy habits Getting vaccinated means you are far less likely to get really sick and have to go to hospital if you catch COVID-19. You are also less likely to pass COVID-19 on to other people. While a 2-dose course provides some protection against severe disease from Omicron, protection against infection can decrease over time. A booster will improve protection against Omicron by reducing the chance of more serious infection and the risk of transmitting it to others. Get your vaccine booster --- Section Separator --- Post COVID-19 condition | who.int (external link) Long COVID | healthnavigator.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe About COVID-19 Our response to Omicron --- Section Separator --- At Phase 3, the focus is on safely managing COVID-19 at home. This means we can keep our hospital beds free for people who are vulnerable and need medical treatment. There are thousands of new cases every day. Most people will self-manage at home. Health and social services will focus on families and communities that have the highest needs. You should only get a COVID-19 test if: you have symptoms, or you are a Household Contact — you live with someone who has COVID-19. Rapid antigen tests (RATs) are the main testing method for people with COVID-19 symptoms and Household Contacts. You can order RATs online or over the phone, to pick up at a site near you. You should record your RAT result — even if it is negative. You can record your result online through My Covid Record or by calling 0800 222 478 . How to get a COVID-19 test How to report your RAT result If you test positive, you will need to isolate for 7 days. If you have COVID-19 If you are a Household Contact, you will need to isolate from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive, until they complete their 7 days of isolation. You will need to test on Day 3 and Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, you need to begin 7 days of isolation as a case. Household Contacts Close Contacts do not need to isolate, but you should monitor for symptoms for 10 days. Close Contacts Critical workers can keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Critical workers Self-service tools are available for people to provide information for contact tracing and case investigation. If you test positive you will be sent a text with a link to complete an online form to identify high-risk locations and people you have had contact with. The Ministry of Health will focus on supporting people who do not have access to or are not confident using technology. Bluetooth tracing continues to be used. Locations of interest will not be published during Phase 3. How contact tracing works If you are self-isolating at home, you can get help if you need essential supplies like food or medicine. If your symptoms worsen, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. They will tell you what you need to do next. Vulnerable people will have access to clinical care to help them self-isolate safely. Help if you are self isolating Financial support COVID-19 Support Payment for businesses | ird.govt.nz (external link) Cases have spread in the community, so we need to minimise and slow transmission to protect our vulnerable communities. There are some cases of COVID-19 in the community, but we continue to stamp it out. COVID-19 is still spreading in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Get your vaccine booster Vaccination for children --- Section Separator --- At Phase 3, the focus is on safely managing COVID-19 at home. This means we can keep our hospital beds free for people who are vulnerable and need medical treatment. --- Section Separator --- There are thousands of new cases every day. Most people will self-manage at home. Health and social services will focus on families and communities that have the highest needs. You should only get a COVID-19 test if: you have symptoms, or you are a Household Contact — you live with someone who has COVID-19. Rapid antigen tests (RATs) are the main testing method for people with COVID-19 symptoms and Household Contacts. You can order RATs online or over the phone, to pick up at a site near you. You should record your RAT result — even if it is negative. You can record your result online through My Covid Record or by calling 0800 222 478 . How to get a COVID-19 test How to report your RAT result If you test positive, you will need to isolate for 7 days. If you have COVID-19 If you are a Household Contact, you will need to isolate from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive, until they complete their 7 days of isolation. You will need to test on Day 3 and Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, you need to begin 7 days of isolation as a case. Household Contacts Close Contacts do not need to isolate, but you should monitor for symptoms for 10 days. Close Contacts Critical workers can keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Critical workers Self-service tools are available for people to provide information for contact tracing and case investigation. If you test positive you will be sent a text with a link to complete an online form to identify high-risk locations and people you have had contact with. The Ministry of Health will focus on supporting people who do not have access to or are not confident using technology. Bluetooth tracing continues to be used. Locations of interest will not be published during Phase 3. How contact tracing works If you are self-isolating at home, you can get help if you need essential supplies like food or medicine. If your symptoms worsen, call your doctor or Healthline for advice. They will tell you what you need to do next. Vulnerable people will have access to clinical care to help them self-isolate safely. Help if you are self isolating Financial support COVID-19 Support Payment for businesses | ird.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Cases have spread in the community, so we need to minimise and slow transmission to protect our vulnerable communities. --- Section Separator --- There are some cases of COVID-19 in the community, but we continue to stamp it out. --- Section Separator --- COVID-19 is still spreading in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits Get your vaccine booster Vaccination for children --- Section Separator --- What is COVID-19 COVID-19 symptoms Our response to Omicron
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Information for Māori and communities in New Zealand, including Pacific Peoples, disabled people and youth. --- Section Separator --- Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. --- Section Separator --- Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori about staying safe during COVID-19. Kia orana, Noa’ia, Talofa lava, Mauri, Mālō e lelei, Tālofa, Ni Sa Bula Vinaka, Fakaalofa lahi atu, Mālō ni , tēnā koutou katoa and warm Pacific greetings. Here is the latest information and advice for our Pacific communities. This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people.
This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for disabled people. Popular topics What happens if you get COVID-19 Get a COVID-19 test Get RATs delivered If you cannot wear a face mask If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 About the traffic light system Get a booster Translations --- Section Separator --- For testing or vaccination advice, call the Disability Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 . If you are self-isolating and need food or other essential items, call the COVID-19 welfare phone line on 0800 512 337 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- You may need a test if: you have symptoms of COVID-19 you live with someone who has COVID-19 you are travelling you job needs you to take tests. You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. You can order RATs online or over the phone to use at home. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. You will need access to a mobile phone to order online. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. Order RATs online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Order over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. Find your nearest testing centre: COVID-19 testing sites | Healthpoint (external link) Talk to your doctor or residential care provider. You can also get advice from the Disability Healthline. Call 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 . If you have mobility or other accessibility challenges and are unable to leave your home to get to a collection site, you can arrange to have a RAT kit delivered to you. Free call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . If you have done the test yourself, or a support person has done it for you, record the result online or over the phone. Online: My Covid Record (external link) Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with the latest, trusted information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so that you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) You will need to self-isolate for 7 days. This means you must stay at home and also try to avoid contact with people you live with. The people you live with will also need to self-isolate. Start counting from Day 0, which is the first day you had symptoms or when you got your positive test result (whichever came first). Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 7 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. Advice for carers on supporting someone who has COVID-19 | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what to do if you test positive for COVID-19. The Health Navigator website has information for disabled people about keeping yourself safe, getting support and testing. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. For most children, COVID-19 generally has mild effects. Find out what symptoms to look out for. --- Section Separator --- A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. You can get a booster now if: you are aged 18 or over, and it has been at least 3 months since you completed your primary course you are aged 16 or 17 and it has been 6 months since you completed your primary course. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Some people over the age of 5 who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. If you think you might qualify, speak with your doctor or specialist. Find out more about vaccination for people who are severely immunocompromised (external link) To book your vaccination or get advice: call the Disability Healthline on 0800 28 29 26 and choose option 2 text free to 8988 email accessiblecovidvaccinations@whakarongorau.nz --- Section Separator --- Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. --- Section Separator --- Find information and advice about getting vaccinated, including information about boosters and accessible vaccination sites. Information about getting the COVID-19 vaccine if you have an underlying health condition or are taking medication. --- Section Separator --- Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Financial support Support is available if you need it when self-isolating because of COVID-19. Help when you are self-isolating If you test positive, let your support provider know that you have COVID-19 so they can put protective measures in place. Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow appropriate infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) Call the Ministry of Social Development's free COVID-19 Welfare line on 0800 512 337 . They can help you with: food and essential items mobile data so you can keep in contact with friends and whānau support for personal care or daily tasks talking to your employer if you are worried about your leave or pay mental health support support with family or sexual violence. Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others from COVID-19. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. For some people, an impairment, disability, or physical or mental health condition can mean wearing a mask is not possible. If you have a legitimate reason that means wearing a face mask is not suitable, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can also request a card by calling 0800 11 12 13 or by texting 8988. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- We are protecting Aoteroa New Zealand from COVID-19 using a system called the 'traffic lights'. Its official name is the COVID-19 Protection Framework. My Vaccine Passes are no longer required. Some businesses may choose to keep using them. You do not need to scan in when visiting a business or venue. There is a 200-person limit for indoor gatherings and events. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing.
Home Prepare and stay safe Iwi and communities Support and information for disabled people If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- If your support worker gets COVID-19, the disability support organisation they are from is responsible for finding a replacement. In some cases, they may only be able to provide essential services while your regular support worker recovers. Your support provider will check in with you about any changes. If you would prefer that a family member or friend support you instead, discuss this with your disability support organisation. If you usually get support from a family member or friend, or you individually contract support people, make a plan for alternate support in case they get COVID-19. Options could include: another family member or friend providing care for you over this time a paid carer to be arranged through a care support agency contacting your local Needs Assessment Service Co-ordination service (NASC). If you receive disability funded support, they will put you in contact with a disability support provider. Needs Assessment and Service Coordination services | health.govt.nz (external link) If you live in the same home as your carer, and they are well enough to continue providing care, they can do so. They will need appropriate infection prevention control and personal protective equipment. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) If you receive support in your home, it is important to have a support plan. This should include your important health information and care routines. If your regular carer becomes unwell and you need emergency care, this plan can be shared with the new carer. This means your care and support can continue safely. Your disability support provider can help you create a plan. You can also use the emergency care planning tools available on the Carers New Zealand website. Emergency care planning tools | carers.net.nz (external link) There are a few things to consider, specific to COVID-19: tolerance with medication tolerance around needles, etc tolerance around masks and nasal prongs anticipated staffing/supervision requirements. --- Section Separator --- If your support worker gets COVID-19, the disability support organisation they are from is responsible for finding a replacement. In some cases, they may only be able to provide essential services while your regular support worker recovers. Your support provider will check in with you about any changes. If you would prefer that a family member or friend support you instead, discuss this with your disability support organisation. --- Section Separator --- If you usually get support from a family member or friend, or you individually contract support people, make a plan for alternate support in case they get COVID-19. Options could include: another family member or friend providing care for you over this time a paid carer to be arranged through a care support agency contacting your local Needs Assessment Service Co-ordination service (NASC). If you receive disability funded support, they will put you in contact with a disability support provider. Needs Assessment and Service Coordination services | health.govt.nz (external link) If you live in the same home as your carer, and they are well enough to continue providing care, they can do so. They will need appropriate infection prevention control and personal protective equipment. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you receive support in your home, it is important to have a support plan. This should include your important health information and care routines. If your regular carer becomes unwell and you need emergency care, this plan can be shared with the new carer. This means your care and support can continue safely. Your disability support provider can help you create a plan. You can also use the emergency care planning tools available on the Carers New Zealand website. Emergency care planning tools | carers.net.nz (external link) There are a few things to consider, specific to COVID-19: tolerance with medication tolerance around needles, etc tolerance around masks and nasal prongs anticipated staffing/supervision requirements. --- Section Separator --- Support and information for whānau, hapū and iwi Māori Support and information for Pacific Peoples Support and information for disabled people If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 If your support worker or carer gets COVID-19
This section has information about COVID-19 and useful services for older people. Popular topics Large Print and audio Protect yourself from COVID-19 Get a booster Get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 Get support Face mask advice Traffic light settings --- Section Separator --- For free health advice, call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you are self-isolating and need food or other essential items, call the COVID-19 welfare phone line on 0800 512 337 . If it is an emergency and you need urgent medical help or cannot breathe properly, call emergency services on 111 . If you have COVID-19, tell them when you call. --- Section Separator --- Information about our response to COVID-19 — including vaccination, self-isolation guidance and traffic light settings — is available in Large Print and audio. Large Print and audio --- Section Separator --- You may need a test if: you have symptoms of COVID-19 you live with someone who has COVID-19 you are travelling your job needs you to take tests. You can do a rapid antigen test (RAT) at home, either by yourself or with the help of a family member or support person. You can order RATs online or over the phone to use at home. The service is easy to use, and there are RAT collection sites all around the country. You will need access to a mobile phone to order online. If needed, someone else can order and pick up a RAT kit for you. Order RATs online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Order over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . You can also arrange for a doctor or nurse to do a test for you at a testing centre. It is okay to bring someone with you when you get a test. Find your nearest testing centre: COVID-19 testing sites | Healthpoint (external link) Talk to your doctor or residential care provider. You can also get free advice from Healthline — call 0800 358 5453 If you have mobility or other accessibility challenges and are unable to leave your home to get to a collection site, you can arrange to have a RAT kit delivered to you. Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Report your positive or negative RAT result by phone or online. Reporting a result means you can get extra support if you need it while self-isolating. Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Online: My Covid Record (external link) --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- Learn more about who can get a test and where to get them from. Find instructions for how to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) kit at home. If you have COVID-19 symptoms or live with someone who has COVID-19, you can order free RAT kits through this website. You will need to pick them up from a collection site. --- Section Separator --- Report your positive RAT result online or over the phone. Over the phone: Call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 . Online: My Covid Record (external link) If you have a mobile phone, you will receive confirmation of your test results by text from the Ministry of Health, using the official 2328 or 2648 numbers. The text includes a link to the COVID-19 Health Hub. This is a safe and data-free website with trusted, up-to-date information about what to do next, and how to monitor your symptoms. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) The text also includes a link to a form with questions about your health, wellbeing, and where you are living, so you can get extra help if you need it. If you need help completing the form, email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728 . You need to self-isolate for 7 days. This means you must stay at home and try to avoid contact with people you live with. The people you live with also need to isolate. Start counting from Day 0. This is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive (whichever came first). Use the household isolation timeline tool (external link) Make a plan for how you will get food or medicines delivered. For most people, COVID-19 is a mild to moderate illness. You should be able to fully recover at home. If you still feel unwell after 7 days, you should stay at home until 24 hours after your symptoms have gone. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. Find information on the Health Navigator website about keeping safe, testing and getting support. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. --- Section Separator --- Find out how to make a plan in case you need to self-isolate. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. Find information on the Health Navigator website about keeping safe, testing and getting support. The Ministry of Health has advice for making self-isolating at home easier. It is important to keep an eye on symptoms, particularly if they seem to be getting worse, and get help straight away if needed. --- Section Separator --- A booster dose will give you greater immunity against COVID-19, including Omicron. People aged 18 and over can get a booster if it has been 3 months since they completed their primary course. For most people, this is 2 doses. If you have not been vaccinated yet, talk to your doctor or health professional for advice. Vaccine advice if you have a health condition Some people who are severely immunocompromised are eligible to get a third primary dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. This extra dose will help give you your best possible protection. Your doctor can tell you whether you are eligible for this third primary dose. Vaccination for people who are severely immunocompromised | health.govt.nz (external link) A second booster is recommended for those at increased risk of severe illness from COVID-19, a minimum of 6 months after a first booster. We will update this page with information about who is eligible and how to book in the next few weeks. To book your vaccination or get advice, call the COVID Vaccination Healthline on 0800 28 29 26. --- Section Separator --- Find services for when you need help, support, advice or information about COVID-19. COVID-19 support If your income has been affected by COVID-19, you may be able to apply for financial support. Financial support Support is available if you need it when self-isolating because of COVID-19. Help when you are self-isolating If you test positive, tell your support provider so they can put protective measures in place.Your in-home care will carry on, even if you are sick with COVID-19. Anyone who is providing care must follow infection prevention control procedures. Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers | health.govt.nz (external link) What to do if your support worker or carer gets COVID-19 Call the Ministry of Social Development's free COVID-19 Welfare line on 0800 512 337 . They can help you with: food and essential items mobile data so you can keep in contact with friends and whānau support for personal care or daily tasks talking to your employer if you are worried about your leave or pay mental health support support with family or sexual violence. Find helplines that are available if you are not coping or have concerns for others. Wellbeing helplines and support --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others from COVID-19. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. Some people cannot wear masks. If you have a legitimate reason for not wearing a face mask, such as a disability or a physical or mental health condition,you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. Online: Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass | health.govt.nz (external link) Over the phone: 0800 11 12 13 By text: 8988 --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one, unless you are exempt. For some people wearing a face mask is unsuitable. Find a list of valid reasons where a mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. When you wear a face mask, it is important you use it safely. --- Section Separator --- We are protecting Aoteroa New Zealand from COVID-19 using a system called the 'traffic lights'. Its official name is the COVID-19 Protection Framework. My Vaccine Passes are no longer required. Some businesses may choose to keep using them. You do not need to scan in when visiting a business or venue. There is a 200-person limit for indoor gatherings and events. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. There are no restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing. --- Section Separator --- Red is not a lockdown, but there are restrictions to slow the spread of COVID-19. Learn more about what you need to do. Because there are cases of COVID-19 in the community at Orange, you must wear a face mask at many indoors locations. Learn more about what you need to do. There are no restrictions at Green. Find out about the healthy habits we encourage you to continue doing.
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits COVID-19 is in the community. To slow the spread and continue to protect yourself, your whānau, and your community, it is important to keep up the healthy habits we know. --- Section Separator --- Face masks can help reduce the spread of COVID-19. They are useful in poorly ventilated indoor areas and when you are around people you do not know. They stop particles spreading when someone speaks, laughs, coughs or sneezes. This is particularly useful when someone has COVID-19 but feels well or has no obvious symptoms. You must wear a face mask in some locations. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- JP's story: Protecting his Grandma Tina's story: Keeping herself safe Kali's story: Protecting her tamariki Dallas' story: Protecting his whānau Kim's story: Keeping herself safe Elaine's story: Protecting her father Kiahan's story: Protecting his Nan Chelsea's story: Protecting her son --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms, you should get a test. You must stay home until you get a negative result. Call your doctor or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 for advice about getting tested. COVID-19 symptoms How to get a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- Washing your hands is one of the easiest ways to keep yourself safe. Wash often with soap for 20 seconds. Then dry your hands completely. This kills the virus by bursting its protective bubble. You should wash your hands if you have been in a public place, and after blowing your nose, coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your face, including your eyes, nose or mouth, if your hands are not clean. Using hand sanitiser is also effective at killing germs and viruses. It destroys the protective bubble of the virus, but only if the sanitiser has at least 60% alcohol. Sanitiser is also effective in reducing the number and type of germs on your hands. --- Section Separator --- Cough or sneeze into your elbow or cover your mouth and nose with tissues. Put tissues in a bin immediately, then wash your hands thoroughly. This will catch the droplets and keep the virus off your hands, so you will not spread it to other people and make them sick too. --- Section Separator --- Clean surfaces regularly. This includes frequently touched items like door handles, light switches and phones. When an infected person breathes, speaks, coughs or sneezes, they may spread particles containing the virus. These particles range in size. The larger and heavier particles or droplets can settle on surrounding surfaces. Use an antiviral disinfectant and follow instructions. Remember to store cleaners and disinfectants safely. --- Section Separator --- The risk of becoming infected with COVID-19 increases the closer you are to a person and the longer you are close to that person. The risk is highest in crowded and poorly ventilated indoor spaces. The risk is lower outside when there are fewer people, and when you are further away from others. We recommend opening windows to increase fresh air flow inside. If air conditioning is used, make sure the system is regularly maintained. Find out more about reducing the risk of COVID-19 through ventilation | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are not required to maintain physical distance from others in the traffic light system. But it is still worthwhile keeping a safe distance from people you do not know while out and about. This will help reduce the spread of COVID-19 if it is in the community. --- Section Separator --- As Omicron is now widespread, we no longer need to contact trace individual cases. This means you do not need to keep a record of where you have been for contact tracing purposes. In case you do test positive for COVID-19, it is still a good idea to: keep track of people you have been with record any high-risk locations you have visited, for example hospitals or aged care facilities keep Bluetooth tracing turned on. We encourage you to not remove the NZ COVID Tracer app from your phone just yet. Bluetooth tracing is still being used to notify people if they have been in close contact with someone who has COVID-19. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) The contact tracing system may need to return if another variant of concern arrives in New Zealand. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- Everyone in in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get their free COVID-19 vaccination now. You can get a booster if it has been at least 3 months since your second dose. Vaccination remains one of the best tools in the fight against COVID-19. Even if you have had COVID-19, getting a booster once enough time has passed gives you another a layer of protection from the virus. Being up-to-date with your COVID-19 vaccinations also helps protect people who are more at risk of becoming seriously ill from the virus and people who cannot be vaccinated such as babies and children under 5 years old. COVID-19 vaccines
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Keep track of where you have been It is important to keep track of high-risk locations you have been at and who you have been with, so you know who to tell if you test positive for COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- As Omicron is now widespread, we no longer need to contact trace individual cases. This means you do not need to maintain records for contact tracing purposes. However, if you test positive for COVID-19, you need to tell the people you have been in contact with while infectious that you have COVID-19. This can include others you live with, your colleagues or workplace, friends, or school. Even if your contacts do not have to isolate, they should still be given the information so they can make decisions for themselves. --- Section Separator --- It is still a good idea to: keep track of people you have been with record any high-risk locations you have visited, for example hospitals or aged care facilities keep Bluetooth tracing turned on in the NZ COVID Tracer app. If you test positive, you will be sent a link to an online form, where you can share: contact details of your contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited Bluetooth data from the NZ COVID Tracer app. This information can help stop the spread of the virus in high-risk locations and protect our vulnerable communities. --- Section Separator --- You can continue to use the NZ COVID Tracer app. We recommend you keep the NZ COVID Tracer app on your phone. We may bring back the contact tracing system if another variant of concern arrives in New Zealand. NZ COVID Tracer app | health.govt.nz (external link) You can also use the NZ COVID Tracer app to find key links to: request free RATs so you can test for COVID-19 at home if you are unwell record your RAT result book your booster dose find information if you test positive or are a Household Contact. To access these links, select ‘Dashboard’, and open the ‘more info’ tab. You should keep your Bluetooth tracing turned on. Notifications will still be sent out to people who have been near someone with COVID-19. Bluetooth tracing allows you to receive an alert if you have been near another app user who tests positive for COVID-19. It is safe, private and anonymous. How Bluetooth tracing works | health.govt.nz (external link) How privacy is protected in the NZ COVID Tracer app | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you cannot or do not use the app, use whatever method works for you, like the NZ COVID Tracer booklet. We recommend you keep track of: where you went when you went there who you met. NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 36 pages A5 [PDF, 664 KB] NZ COVID Tracer booklet, 3 pages — print onto A4 paper and fold into a booklet [PDF, 116 KB] A simplified version is available for disabled communities: NZ COVID Tracer booklet, simplified [PDF, 2.6 MB] You can also order copies of the NZ COVID Tracer booklet if you cannot print your own. You can also order booklets in other languages. Order NZ COVID Tracer booklets (external link) email Covid.Comms@dpmc.govt.nz --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Health is no longer publishing locations of interest. Case investigations are focused on high-risk exposures and Household Contacts.
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask Face masks are a way we can protect ourselves and others. You should wear one whenever you can. At some traffic light settings, there are some places where you must wear one. --- Section Separator --- As a general rule, you should wear a face mask whenever you are in a public indoor setting. When it is hard to physically distance from people you do not know, we encourage you to wear a face mask. Everyone must wear a mask that is attached to the face by loops around the ears or head. This means people can no longer use scarves, bandannas or t-shirts as face coverings. Types of face masks You do not need to wear a mask when exercising. Wearing a face mask is unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. They still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. If you are unable to wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport, this includes Cook Strait Ferries but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services at indoor arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport if you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above on public transport and Ministry of Education funded school transport in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public venues or facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic in an indoor setting at schools, for example classrooms and assemblies. This includes visitors, workers, and students and teachers in Years 4 to 13 inside at tertiary education facilities when visiting a licensed early childhood service at food and drink businesses, for example cafes, bars and restaurants — if you are seated indoors. You can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink at close-proximity businesses, for example hairdressers, barbers, beauty salons at an indoor event at an indoor gathering, except when you have exclusive use of the venue or defined space when visiting the indoor area of a court or tribunal — unless the judicial officer does not require them at premises operated by local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a health care service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility (unless you are a patient). You are not required to wear a face mask when visiting a voting place to vote in a general election. This applies to people going to cast their vote, and to anyone supporting or assisting them. Face masks at work --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport, this includes Cook Strait Ferries but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services or when you are on a ship that does not have an enclosed space for passengers at indoor arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport if you are aged 12 years or over on Ministry of Education funded school transport and public transport in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic visiting the indoor area of a court or tribunal — unless the judicial officer does not require them at premises operated by local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a healthcare service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility (unless you are a patient). You are not required to wear a face mask when visiting a voting place to vote in a general election. This applies to people going to cast their vote, and to anyone supporting or assisting them. Face masks at work --- Section Separator --- You are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings. --- Section Separator --- Some people must wear a face mask when they are working with members of the public, customers or clients while they are at work — unless they are exempt. You must wear a face mask if you work at a gathering — it does not need to be a medical grade one. The places where you must wear a medical grade face mask if you are working include: in a food and drink business or service in a close-proximity business, for example if you are a hairdresser in a gym or indoor recreation facility at an event as a teacher of students in years 4 to 13 voting places when you are working with members of the public, customers, or clients at the voting place, in areas that are open to the public. You must wear a face mask if you work at a gathering — it does not need to be a medical grade one. The places where you must wear a medical grade face mask if you are working include: in a food and drink business or service in a close-proximity business, for example if you are a hairdresser at an event voting places when you are working with members of the public, customers, or clients at the voting place, in areas that are open to the public. You do not need to wear face masks at work at Green. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You do not need to wear a face mask in non-public facing workplaces. However, employers can apply their own policies for mask use. The Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment has advice about the requirements for face masks in different sectors. Face mask requirement for workers and customers | business.govt.nz (external link) The Ministry of Health has information about the use of personal protective equipment (PPE) in a health and disability care setting. PPE in health and disability care settings | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Some people who have a disability or health condition may not be able to wear a face mask. There are also some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. Find a list of exemptions — where a face mask does not need to be worn and who does not need to wear one. Who does not need to wear a face mask
Home Prepare and stay safe Healthy habits Wear a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- People who have genuine reasons for not being able to wear a face mask can now access a personalised Mask Exemption Pass. If it is unsuitable for you to wear a face mask, we encourage you to apply for the new Mask Exemption Pass. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass | health.govt.nz (external link) There are some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. In general, you should wear a face mask whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by particles, so masks are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. by children under 12 — except at Red for those aged 8 years or over or in Year 4 or above when indoors at school and on public and school transport at an indoor gathering if there is exclusive use of the venue or defined space, for example weddings or funerals on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry. you are outdoors you are exercising it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face mask unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind or has a disability which makes it hard to have effective communication you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. We know face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. You still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can show the card to transport operators, retailers and service providers. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Mask Exemption Pass if you cannot wear a face mask — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass (external link) Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face mask. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, make sure you keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- People who have genuine reasons for not being able to wear a face mask can now access a personalised Mask Exemption Pass. If it is unsuitable for you to wear a face mask, we encourage you to apply for the new Mask Exemption Pass. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There are some situations where a face mask does not need to be worn. In general, you should wear a face mask whenever you can. COVID-19 is transmitted by particles, so masks are a way we can protect ourselves and each other. If you are around people you do not know, it is a good idea to wear a mask. by children under 12 — except at Red for those aged 8 years or over or in Year 4 or above when indoors at school and on public and school transport at an indoor gathering if there is exclusive use of the venue or defined space, for example weddings or funerals on a boat or ship that has no enclosed space for passengers, for example jet boat tours on charter or group tours on private flights by drivers, pilots, staff or crew of the service if they are in a space completely separated from passengers, for example pilot in a cockpit, train driver in a train cab, or a captain on a ferry. you are outdoors you are exercising it is unsafe, for example if wearing one means a driver cannot safely operate the vehicle there is an emergency you have a physical or mental health illness or condition or disability that makes wearing a face mask unsuitable you need to prove your identity you need to communicate with someone who is deaf, hard of hearing, deafblind or has a disability which makes it hard to have effective communication you need to take medicine you need to eat or drink, if eating or drinking is usually allowed it is not required by law. --- Section Separator --- We know face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. You still have the right to food, pharmacies, education and other services. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can show the card to transport operators, retailers and service providers. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Mask Exemption Pass if you cannot wear a face mask — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Apply for a Mask Exemption Pass (external link) --- Section Separator --- Sometimes the reason why a face mask is unsuitable for you is not obvious to others. You should not worry if a business owner or employee approaches you to ask whether you are able to wear a face mask. They are just ensuring the safety of you and others. It is inappropriate for a business owner or employee to enquire about the nature of your disability or condition. But it is reasonable for them to check whether you are exempt from the rule to wear a face mask. If you cannot wear a face mask, make sure you keep up other healthy habits when in public or while accessing businesses and services. Stay home if you are sick. Keep a 2 metre distance from people you do not know. Regularly wash and thoroughly dry your hands often. Cough and sneeze into your elbow. You can also consider if there are delivery or click-and-collect options you could use instead of entering a retail store. Or ask family and friends to pick things up for you. People at higher risk from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Wear a face mask How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Who does not need to wear a face mask Types of face masks Keep track of where you have been
Home Prepare and stay safe Preparing to self-isolate --- Section Separator --- If you or someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, all of you must isolate for at least 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket, or to pick up essential supplies, like medication. You will need to have a plan for someone outside your household to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you all need to self-isolate. Download COVID-19: Our isolation plan [PDF, 176 KB] Make a plan for how you will get food and essential supplies. You may want to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs, or you can use a food delivery service. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything dropped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. If you need support while you are self-isolating Put together a hygiene kit with things like hand sanitiser, gloves, face masks, cleaning products and extra rubbish bags. If you have people in your household who need extra support, make a plan for their care. If you have shared custody arrangements, talk to your child’s other parent or caregiver to decide what will happen. Looking after your physical and mental wellbeing is important while you are at home. Try to think of ways you can get fresh air, or do some exercise. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood — but you cannot use any shared facilities, like a public swimming pool. Keep a safe distance from others when exercising. Looking after your mental wellbeing Check that you have basic medical supplies to help manage your symptoms. This could include pain relief, a thermometer, nasal spray, lozenges and your regular medications. If you are isolating and need medicine, you can contact your doctor or local pharmacy to arrange a delivery, or ask friends and whānau to collect it for you. Make a list of whānau information — include NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medications or medical supplies each person will need. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, afterhours, and any support agencies. Talk to your employer and child’s school so you and your tamariki are set up for working and learning from home. If you cannot work from home, talk to your employer about your pay and sick leave entitlements. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) Everyone’s living situation is different — you may be in a large family, living with flatmates, or you may live alone. For some people, it will be easier to limit contact with other household members if they have access to their own bathroom and bedroom. Talk with the people you live with to make a plan for how you will manage any shared spaces. Share your plan with wider whānau and neighbours and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. How to self-isolate Make a list of activities you and your whānau can do to help pass the time. Have a plan with friends and whānau to stay connected online, so you do not have to isolate alone. Check you have enough pet food and supplies. If you are unable to look after a pet, ask someone else to care for them while you are isolating. Note. This video refers to a COVID-19 Readiness Checklist which has now been revised to be the COVID-19: Isolation Plan. Work out how to let people know your household is isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- If you or someone in your household tests positive for COVID-19, all of you must isolate for at least 7 days . This means you cannot leave home to go to the supermarket, or to pick up essential supplies, like medication. You will need to have a plan for someone outside your household to collect them for you, or to get supplies delivered. Most people who get COVID-19 will have a mild to moderate illness and can safely recover in their own home. For those who need help, the healthcare system will always be available. Having a plan will make it easier when you all need to self-isolate. Download COVID-19: Our isolation plan [PDF, 176 KB] --- Section Separator --- Make a plan for how you will get food and essential supplies. You may want to ask friends, whānau or neighbours to do contactless drop-offs, or you can use a food delivery service. If you have friends or whānau who are self-isolating, reach out and ask if they need anything dropped off, or if there is anything you can do to help. If you need support while you are self-isolating Put together a hygiene kit with things like hand sanitiser, gloves, face masks, cleaning products and extra rubbish bags. If you have people in your household who need extra support, make a plan for their care. If you have shared custody arrangements, talk to your child’s other parent or caregiver to decide what will happen. Looking after your physical and mental wellbeing is important while you are at home. Try to think of ways you can get fresh air, or do some exercise. You can exercise outdoors in your neighbourhood — but you cannot use any shared facilities, like a public swimming pool. Keep a safe distance from others when exercising. Looking after your mental wellbeing Check that you have basic medical supplies to help manage your symptoms. This could include pain relief, a thermometer, nasal spray, lozenges and your regular medications. If you are isolating and need medicine, you can contact your doctor or local pharmacy to arrange a delivery, or ask friends and whānau to collect it for you. Make a list of whānau information — include NHI numbers, any medical conditions and medications or medical supplies each person will need. Include emergency contact information like your doctor, afterhours, and any support agencies. Talk to your employer and child’s school so you and your tamariki are set up for working and learning from home. If you cannot work from home, talk to your employer about your pay and sick leave entitlements. Leave and pay entitlements during COVID-19 | employment.govt.nz (external link) Everyone’s living situation is different — you may be in a large family, living with flatmates, or you may live alone. For some people, it will be easier to limit contact with other household members if they have access to their own bathroom and bedroom. Talk with the people you live with to make a plan for how you will manage any shared spaces. Share your plan with wider whānau and neighbours and talk to them about what you will need them to do and how you can help each other. How to self-isolate Make a list of activities you and your whānau can do to help pass the time. Have a plan with friends and whānau to stay connected online, so you do not have to isolate alone. Check you have enough pet food and supplies. If you are unable to look after a pet, ask someone else to care for them while you are isolating. --- Section Separator --- Note. This video refers to a COVID-19 Readiness Checklist which has now been revised to be the COVID-19: Isolation Plan. --- Section Separator --- Work out how to let people know your household is isolating. This could be a sign for your front door or fence. We are self-isolating poster [PDF, 1.5 MB] --- Section Separator --- About COVID-19 People at higher risk from COVID-19 Preparing to self-isolate Healthy habits Looking after your mental wellbeing Wellbeing helplines and support COVID-19 support Misinformation, scams and online harm Iwi and communities When to call for help
Home Testing and tracing Testing for COVID-19 and contact tracing are 2 important ways to help manage COVID-19 in Aotearoa New Zealand. What you need to know When you should get tested Household Contacts Keep track of where you have been Pre-departure tests to enter New Zealand If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. Information about contact tracing and how it allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate. --- Section Separator --- Find out when you should get a COVID-19 test, types of tests available, where to find a testing centre, and what to expect. Information about contact tracing and how it allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out what steps to take if you test positive for COVID-19, including how to self-isolate.
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Contact tracing allows us to find people who may have been exposed to COVID-19. Find out how it works, what you need to do and the NZ COVID Tracer app. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, what you need to do to support contact tracing if you test positive, and receiving alerts from the NZ COVID Tracer app. You are a Household Contact if you live with, or spend at least 8 hours at a residence with, someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Find out what you need to do. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate. Find out what a critical service is, who is eligible to be a critical worker and where you can find more information about the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Find out what you need to do if you live with someone who is waiting for a test result, self-isolating or a Close Contact. --- Section Separator --- Information on contact tracing, what you need to do to support contact tracing if you test positive, and receiving alerts from the NZ COVID Tracer app. You are a Household Contact if you live with, or spend at least 8 hours at a residence with, someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Find out what you need to do. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate. Find out what a critical service is, who is eligible to be a critical worker and where you can find more information about the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. Find out what you need to do if you live with someone who is waiting for a test result, self-isolating or a Close Contact.
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate or get a test. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if any develop, get a test. You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. You are a Close Contact in the following situations: If you have been close (within 1.5 metres) to someone who has COVID-19 for more than 15 minutes, and they were not wearing a face mask or not wearing it properly. If you have had direct contact with a person who has COVID-19. For example, kissing, or if the person coughed or sneezed on you. If you spent time in an indoor space with someone who has COVID-19 for more than 1 hour and at least one of the following. They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you may be notified by: the person who has COVID-19 a text message or call from the National Investigation and Tracing Centre (NITC) an orange Bluetooth alert on the NZ COVID Tracer app dashboard your employer or school. You do not need to self-isolate if you are a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if you develop any, get a test. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. Close Contacts do not need to self-isolate or get a test. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if any develop, get a test. --- Section Separator --- You are a Close Contact if you have had contact with a person with COVID-19 when they were infectious. You are a Close Contact in the following situations: If you have been close (within 1.5 metres) to someone who has COVID-19 for more than 15 minutes, and they were not wearing a face mask or not wearing it properly. If you have had direct contact with a person who has COVID-19. For example, kissing, or if the person coughed or sneezed on you. If you spent time in an indoor space with someone who has COVID-19 for more than 1 hour and at least one of the following. They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). They were singing, shouting, smoking, vaping, exercising, or dancing. They were not wearing a face mask or it was not on properly. It was poorly ventilated. It was smaller than 100m2 (about 3 double garages). You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who has tested positive for COVID-19. Advice for Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- If you have been identified as a Close Contact of someone with COVID-19, you may be notified by: the person who has COVID-19 a text message or call from the National Investigation and Tracing Centre (NITC) an orange Bluetooth alert on the NZ COVID Tracer app dashboard your employer or school. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to self-isolate if you are a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if you develop any, get a test. COVID-19 symptoms --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers Household members
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Critical workers --- Section Separator --- Part of New Zealand’s response to Omicron will mean an increased use of rapid antigen tests (RATs) for critical workers. Using RATs will make sure workers are available to maintain critical infrastructure and supply chains. Critical workers are people who work for a critical service or organisation. If you are part of the critical workforce and live with someone who has COVID-19, you may be able to keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. During the Omicron response, workers at registered critical services who are identified as Household Contacts may continue to work. Who is a Household Contact Close Contacts are not eligible for the scheme, as they are not required to isolate. To qualify for an exemption as a critical worker, you must: be deemed critical by your employer work in a critical service, as listed below be fully vaccinated be asymptomatic return a negative rapid antigen test (RAT) unsupervised before each day/shift they work during your isolation period follow specific health protocols. Under the scheme, you are only allowed to go to work — you cannot go anywhere else. When you are not at work, you must self-isolate. You should talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria to be part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. How to get free RATs How to report your RAT results Critical services include: food production and its supply chain key public services such as health and emergency services lifeline utilities such as power and water supplies transport critical financial services news media social welfare human and animal health and welfare. Businesses and organisations can self-assess and sign up to the scheme on business.govt.nz: Close Contact Exemption Scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) You may also be able to keep working if you are a Household Contact if you are not customer facing and can maintain your bubble while working. This applies to any workers or sole traders, not just critical workers. To work under a bubble of 1, workers must: be fully vaccinated not have COVID-19 symptoms not have contact with anyone else at work. You do not need to use rapid antigen tests to return to work and businesses will not need to register for the ‘bubble of 1’. Bubble of 1 for workers who are Close Contacts | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Part of New Zealand’s response to Omicron will mean an increased use of rapid antigen tests (RATs) for critical workers. Using RATs will make sure workers are available to maintain critical infrastructure and supply chains. Critical workers are people who work for a critical service or organisation. If you are part of the critical workforce and live with someone who has COVID-19, you may be able to keep working as part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. --- Section Separator --- During the Omicron response, workers at registered critical services who are identified as Household Contacts may continue to work. Who is a Household Contact Close Contacts are not eligible for the scheme, as they are not required to isolate. To qualify for an exemption as a critical worker, you must: be deemed critical by your employer work in a critical service, as listed below be fully vaccinated be asymptomatic return a negative rapid antigen test (RAT) unsupervised before each day/shift they work during your isolation period follow specific health protocols. Under the scheme, you are only allowed to go to work — you cannot go anywhere else. When you are not at work, you must self-isolate. You should talk to your employer if you think you meet the criteria to be part of the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. How to get free RATs How to report your RAT results --- Section Separator --- Critical services include: food production and its supply chain key public services such as health and emergency services lifeline utilities such as power and water supplies transport critical financial services news media social welfare human and animal health and welfare. Businesses and organisations can self-assess and sign up to the scheme on business.govt.nz: Close Contact Exemption Scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You may also be able to keep working if you are a Household Contact if you are not customer facing and can maintain your bubble while working. This applies to any workers or sole traders, not just critical workers. To work under a bubble of 1, workers must: be fully vaccinated not have COVID-19 symptoms not have contact with anyone else at work. You do not need to use rapid antigen tests to return to work and businesses will not need to register for the ‘bubble of 1’. Bubble of 1 for workers who are Close Contacts | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers Household members
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- Household Contacts must isolate for 7 days and get tested. If you have had COVID-19 in the past 3 months, you do not need to isolate again. Work out your isolation dates using the COVID-19 Health Hub isolation timeline tool (external link) Find more information and advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) You are a Household Contact if you: normally live in a house or flat on a permanent or part-time basis (for example, shared custody) with a person who has tested positive, and you spent at least 1 night or day (more than 8 hours) in that residence while the person was infectious. You are also a Household Contact if you do not normally share a residence with the person who has COVID-19, but have spent a night together in the same room. For people who are travelling or holidaying around New Zealand, Household Contacts include people who are sharing non-communal holiday accommodation such as a: hotel room tent campervan temporary holiday home (such as a bach, Airbnb or similar). If you get COVID-19 while travelling The following people may be Close Contacts, but are not Household Contacts: People who live in the same group accommodation as the person with COVID-19 (for example, in aged residential care facilities, halls of residences, boarding houses, hostels, backpackers, and transitional housing). Advice for Close Contacts Whether you are fully vaccinated or not, you will need to: isolate for 7 days, starting from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive or their symptoms started — whichever came first, and get a test for COVID-19 on Day 3 , and on Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, follow the guidance for people with COVID-19. If you develop symptoms but test negative, do another rapid antigen test (RAT) 48 hours later. While you are isolating, try to avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. How to get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 Your isolation ends at the same time as the first person in your household who had COVID-19 if: your Day 7 test was negative you have no new or worsening symptoms. You can work out your isolation dates using the tool on the COVID-19 Health Hub: Create your household isolation timeline | covid19.health.nz (external link) For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact | covid19.health.nz (external link) If more than 1 person in your household tests positive after the first person, you do not need to restart your isolation period. Only restart your 7-day isolation period if you test positive on Day 3 or Day 7, or develop new or worsening symptoms. You can work out your isolation dates using the tool on the COVID-19 Health Hub: Create your household isolation timeline | covid19.health.nz (external link) Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months — even if someone you live with tests positive. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. If you develop new cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms within 90 days of your original infection, and are at low risk of severe illness, stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. You do not need to take a rapid antigen test (RAT). If you have an underlying health condition or have symptoms that are getting worse, seek advice from a health practitioner or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . After you have had COVID-19 Some people who are Household Contacts and critical workers may be able to still go to work through the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. When you are not at work, you must follow the self-isolation guidance. Critical workers need to be fully vaccinated, have no symptoms and have a negative RAT before going to work. Your employer will let you know if the scheme applies to you. Critical workers There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Find out what financial support is available --- Section Separator --- Household Contacts must isolate for 7 days and get tested. If you have had COVID-19 in the past 3 months, you do not need to isolate again. Work out your isolation dates using the COVID-19 Health Hub isolation timeline tool (external link) Find more information and advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are a Household Contact if you: normally live in a house or flat on a permanent or part-time basis (for example, shared custody) with a person who has tested positive, and you spent at least 1 night or day (more than 8 hours) in that residence while the person was infectious. You are also a Household Contact if you do not normally share a residence with the person who has COVID-19, but have spent a night together in the same room. For people who are travelling or holidaying around New Zealand, Household Contacts include people who are sharing non-communal holiday accommodation such as a: hotel room tent campervan temporary holiday home (such as a bach, Airbnb or similar). If you get COVID-19 while travelling --- Section Separator --- The following people may be Close Contacts, but are not Household Contacts: People who live in the same group accommodation as the person with COVID-19 (for example, in aged residential care facilities, halls of residences, boarding houses, hostels, backpackers, and transitional housing). Advice for Close Contacts --- Section Separator --- Whether you are fully vaccinated or not, you will need to: isolate for 7 days, starting from the day the person with COVID-19 tests positive or their symptoms started — whichever came first, and get a test for COVID-19 on Day 3 , and on Day 7 of the isolation period, or sooner if you develop symptoms. If you test positive, follow the guidance for people with COVID-19. If you develop symptoms but test negative, do another rapid antigen test (RAT) 48 hours later. While you are isolating, try to avoid contact with the person who has COVID-19. How to get a COVID-19 test If you have COVID-19 Your isolation ends at the same time as the first person in your household who had COVID-19 if: your Day 7 test was negative you have no new or worsening symptoms. You can work out your isolation dates using the tool on the COVID-19 Health Hub: Create your household isolation timeline | covid19.health.nz (external link) For further guidance and advice, visit the COVID-19 Health Hub: I am a household contact | covid19.health.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If more than 1 person in your household tests positive after the first person, you do not need to restart your isolation period. Only restart your 7-day isolation period if you test positive on Day 3 or Day 7, or develop new or worsening symptoms. You can work out your isolation dates using the tool on the COVID-19 Health Hub: Create your household isolation timeline | covid19.health.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Once you have recovered from COVID-19, you do not need to isolate again for 3 months — even if someone you live with tests positive. This is because the risk of reinfection during this period is low. If you develop new cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms within 90 days of your original infection, and are at low risk of severe illness, stay home and recover until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. You do not need to take a rapid antigen test (RAT). If you have an underlying health condition or have symptoms that are getting worse, seek advice from a health practitioner or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Some people who are Household Contacts and critical workers may be able to still go to work through the Close Contact Exemption Scheme. When you are not at work, you must follow the self-isolation guidance. Critical workers need to be fully vaccinated, have no symptoms and have a negative RAT before going to work. Your employer will let you know if the scheme applies to you. Critical workers --- Section Separator --- There is financial support for people who need to stay at home due to COVID-19. Find out what financial support is available --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers Household members
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing Household members --- Section Separator --- You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who is has tested positive for COVID-19. Household Contacts You do not need to self-isolate if you are living with someone who is waiting for a COVID-19 test result. Take common-sense precautions to limit contact with the person until they receive their test result. Monitor yourself for symptoms and get a test if you develop any. If the person receives a positive COVID-19 test result, follow the guidance for Household Contacts. You do not need to self-isolate if you live with a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if they develop, get a test. How to get a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- You are a Household Contact if you live with someone who is has tested positive for COVID-19. Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- You do not need to self-isolate if you are living with someone who is waiting for a COVID-19 test result. Take common-sense precautions to limit contact with the person until they receive their test result. Monitor yourself for symptoms and get a test if you develop any. If the person receives a positive COVID-19 test result, follow the guidance for Household Contacts. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to self-isolate if you live with a Close Contact. Monitor yourself for symptoms, and if they develop, get a test. --- Section Separator --- How to get a COVID-19 test --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers Household members
Home Testing and tracing Contact tracing How contact tracing works --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have details of your Household Contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited any welfare needs you may have. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. How to upload your digital diary | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728. It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your approximate arrival and departure time. If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. More information about NZ COVID Tracer alerts | health.govt.nz (external link) You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19, you will need to notify people you have been in close contact with that you have tested positive. This includes your workplace or school. The Ministry of Health also uses this information to notify people in vulnerable communities who may have had exposure to the virus. This process is called contact tracing. --- Section Separator --- If you test positive for COVID-19 you will need to share details of where you have been recently and who you have seen. You can share this with the Ministry of Health securely online through a contact tracing form. This is instead of a case interview over the phone. If you have a valid mobile phone number, you will get a text message with a link and access code to complete this form. The COVID-19 contact tracing form lets you share: symptoms you have details of your Household Contacts details of any high-risk locations you have visited any welfare needs you may have. If you use the NZ COVID Tracer app and Bluetooth tracing, you can upload your digital diary and Bluetooth data to the contact tracing form. How to upload your digital diary | health.govt.nz (external link) More information about the contact tracing form | health.govt.nz (external link) If you need help completing the form, you can email help@tracingform.min.health.nz or call 0800 555 728. It is important to keep a record of any high risk locations you visit — for example, a hospital or aged care facility, so if you or someone in your household tests positive, contact tracers can focus on reducing the spread in our most vulnerable communities and populations. For each high-risk location, you will need to provide: the type of activity or place a name of the place or activity an address your approximate arrival and departure time. --- Section Separator --- If you have been close to someone with COVID-19, you may get an orange alert on your NZ COVID Tracer app. If you get an alert, you should follow the advice on the alert. If you test positive for COVID-19, you will have the option to upload your Bluetooth data on the contact tracing form. Bluetooth alerts are anonymous. If you receive an alert, you will not know who sent the alert, or where you came into contact with the positive case. More information about NZ COVID Tracer alerts | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can help make contact tracing easier for health officials by continuing to keep a record of where you go and who you meet. Keep track of where you have been --- Section Separator --- How contact tracing works Household Contacts Close Contacts Critical workers Household members
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Getting tested for COVID-19 is free. Find information and guidance on getting tested, where to get tested and what happens if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- Find out when you can get a free RAT or PCR test, where to find a community testing centre, and how to report RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. If you test positive or negative, you should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT). You can only do this online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. What to do if you have tested positive for COVID-19 or are a probable case. There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs), so follow the instructions in your kit. Positive or negative, you should report your result online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. --- Section Separator --- Find out when you can get a free RAT or PCR test, where to find a community testing centre, and how to report RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. If you test positive or negative, you should report the results of your rapid antigen test (RAT). You can only do this online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. What to do if you have tested positive for COVID-19 or are a probable case. There are different brands of rapid antigen tests (RATs), so follow the instructions in your kit. Positive or negative, you should report your result online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline.
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing How to get a COVID-19 test When you should get a test, what you need to do, and how to report your RAT results. Tests detect all COVID-19 variants. What you need to know When you need a test Where to get a test How to use a RAT Report your RAT results If you test positive Getting your PCR test results Information in other languages and alternate formats --- Section Separator --- A COVID-19 test is free if it is part of the public health response. This includes if you: have symptoms are a Household Contact are a critical worker and need a test to go to work are part of the healthcare and emergency service workforce require a test for domestic travel or to attend court do a job where mandatory testing applies have been told to get one by a health professional. --- Section Separator --- If you have cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms you should get a test. If you are unsure, talk to your local healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . Check the list of COVID-19 symptoms If you live with a person who has COVID-19 or have spent at least 8 hours with them in the same residence, you need to get a test on their Day 3 and Day 7 of self-isolation. Advice for Household Contacts If you are a Close Contact, you do not need to get a test unless you develop symptoms. Advice for Close Contacts People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 can get a free test from their doctor or community health provider. They will decide which type of test is best for you. If you want to get a test for another reason — for example, because you are visiting friends or whānau — you can now buy a RAT at some retail outlets. --- Section Separator --- If you get COVID-19 symptoms again within 90 days of a previous diagnosis and: you are low risk, you do not need to take another test. Stay home and recover, until 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. you have an underlying health condition or have COVID-19-like symptoms that are getting worse, you should seek advice from a health practitioner or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If you have COVID-19 symptoms more than 90 days from a previous diagnosis you should take a RAT and follow advice for a first infection if you test positive. --- Section Separator --- There are 2 types of COVID-19 tests available to the general public in New Zealand. Rapid antigen tests (RATs) are the main testing method being used now for people with COVID-19 symptoms or who are a Household Contact. Results take about 20 minutes. RATs detect all COVID-19 variants. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests are still being used in some situations. Results take between 2 and 5 days. A health professional can advise you on the right test to take in your situation. PCR tests detect all COVID-19 variants. COVID-19 test results and their accuracy | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You are allowed to leave your home to get a COVID-19 test while you are self-isolating. Healthpoint lists testing centres by area. You can also search for a location near you on a map. Find a COVID-19 testing centre | healthpoint.co.nz (external link) Requesting RATs to use at home is an easy step-by-step process. RATs can be requested on behalf of someone else. You will need access to a mobile phone to validate your order. Online: requestrats.covid19.health.nz (external link) Over the phone: 0800 222 478 , choose option 3 (8am-8pm, 7 days a week) You will be issued an order number. You can then collect your RAT order from a collection site listed on Healthpoint, or have someone collect it for you. Your doctor may offer COVID-19 tests. Call them to find out and follow their advice. --- Section Separator --- Test instructions vary depending on the brand. Many rapid antigen testing kits follow the instructions below, but not all. Follow the manufacturer’s instructions. All RAT kits should be kept out of reach of young children and stored safely according to the manufacturer’s instructions. How to use a RAT How to use a rapid antigen test (RAT) [PDF, 730 KB] Approved RATs and how to use them | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you get a positive test result, you must self-isolate immediately and follow the advice for people who have COVID-19. Your test result does not need to be confirmed with a PCR unless advised. What steps to take if you have tested positive If you get a negative test result and do not have symptoms, it is likely you do not have COVID-19. If you have symptoms, stay at home and carry out another RAT 48 hours later. If your symptoms get worse, contact your local healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . It is possible for someone with COVID-19 to get a negative RAT result. This can be because there was not enough virus in the sample, or because the test was not carried out correctly. If a result is failed or indeterminate, you must take another RAT. Follow the manufacturer's instructions on how long to wait between tests. --- Section Separator --- Whether positive or negative, you should report the results of your RAT. Reporting your result will allow you to be provided with any support required while isolating. You can report your result online through My Covid Record or by calling the helpline. Log in and report your results through My Covid Record (external link) If you are having trouble using My Covid Record, call 0800 222 478 and choose option 3. How to report your RAT result --- Section Separator --- After your test, you must self-isolate until you receive a negative result. You will get your results in a text message from 2328 . It will take between 2 and 5 days. If you test positive, the text message will provide information about self-isolation, support options and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. What steps to take if you have tested positive
Home Testing and tracing COVID-19 testing Report your RAT results --- Section Separator --- Reporting your results will allow you to be provided with any support required while isolating. Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. Sign up for My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) 1. Log in to My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) 2. Under 'Report a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) result', tap or click 'Report a test result'. 3. Read the information provided. Tap or click 'Continue'. 4. Tap or click 'Myself', enter your mobile number and tick the box if you consent to receiving COVID-19 information. Tap or click 'Continue'. 5. Indicate which lines are visible on your test by selecting 'Yes' or 'No'. 6. Tap or click 'Enter result'. Advice about what to do next will appear. If you have entered the wrong result by mistake, you will have 20 minutes to remove it. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, or need help with My Covid Record, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 You can report a RAT result for someone else through your own My Covid Record account. This will allow them to be provided with any support required while isolating. You will need their: full name date of birth NHI number. My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) You can report a RAT result over the phone if you are having trouble using My Covid Record, or want to report someone else's RAT result and do not have their NHI. Call: 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 Testing and reporting requirements for international travellers --- Section Separator --- Reporting your results will allow you to be provided with any support required while isolating. Anyone in New Zealand aged 12 or over can sign up for My Covid Record. First, you will need to create a My Health Account, which allows you to access your health information online. You will need your own email address to create an account. Sign up for My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) 1. Log in to My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) 2. Under 'Report a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) result', tap or click 'Report a test result'. 3. Read the information provided. Tap or click 'Continue'. 4. Tap or click 'Myself', enter your mobile number and tick the box if you consent to receiving COVID-19 information. Tap or click 'Continue'. 5. Indicate which lines are visible on your test by selecting 'Yes' or 'No'. 6. Tap or click 'Enter result'. Advice about what to do next will appear. If you have entered the wrong result by mistake, you will have 20 minutes to remove it. If you do not have a unique email address or valid ID, or need help with My Covid Record, contact the Ministry of Health team, 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. It will help to have your NHI number ready. Email: help@mycovidrecord.min.health.nz Call: 0800 222 478 --- Section Separator --- You can report a RAT result for someone else through your own My Covid Record account. This will allow them to be provided with any support required while isolating. You will need their: full name date of birth NHI number. My Covid Record | mycovidrecord.health.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- You can report a RAT result over the phone if you are having trouble using My Covid Record, or want to report someone else's RAT result and do not have their NHI. Call: 0800 222 478 and choose option 3 --- Section Separator --- Testing and reporting requirements for international travellers --- Section Separator --- How to get a COVID-19 test Report your RAT results What happens if you test positive for COVID-19 How to use a RAT
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange At Orange, there is community transmission of COVID-19, with increasing risks to vulnerable communities, and pressure on the health system. Learn what we all need to do. What to do at Orange: Gatherings Hospitality Businesses and workplaces Events Early learning and schools Shopping and services Travel and accommodation Sport and recreation --- Section Separator --- At Orange, you can continue to do everyday activities, but we need to protect our vulnerable communities. You must wear a face mask in many indoor locations. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You can visit cafes and bars, attend gatherings and events, and go to the hairdresser and gym. There are no capacity limits or distancing requirements at venues. Workplaces and schools can open. To protect yourself, your whānau and your community, keep up healthy habits. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits can go ahead, including visiting friends and whānau, weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Orange. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits can go ahead, including visiting friends and whānau, weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. You can visit friends and whānau at home, in aged care facilities, hospitals, and healthcare facilities at Orange. You can travel around New Zealand and stay at accommodation at Orange. Businesses and workplaces can open at Orange. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Orange. You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. Events can go ahead and public facilities can open at Orange. Education can open at Orange, but you may have to follow public health measures such as wearing a face mask. You can move house, and buy or sell a property at Orange. You can play and watch sport and recreation at Orange. --- Section Separator --- We have COVID-19 resources available for businesses and other organisations to download, print and share.
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Gatherings Gatherings can go ahead, including weddings and civil union ceremonies, faith-based gatherings, and funerals and tangihanga. --- Section Separator --- There is no limit for indoor or outdoor gatherings. You do not need to wear a face mask at a gathering, but it is encouraged. Workers and volunteers at gatherings must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. --- Section Separator --- All types of gatherings can go ahead. A gathering is a group of people in a defined space, but does not include a group of people at an event. Types of gatherings include: weddings and civil union ceremonies faith-based gatherings funerals and tangihanga club functions community fairs social sports recreational, social or cultural activities. --- Section Separator --- There are no limits on the number of people who can attend an indoor or outdoor gathering. Events have different rules to gatherings. Events control access by using tickets, registration, a fee or another way of controlling entry. For example, a ticketed concert held at a place of worship is an event. Events at Orange --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering. People at the gathering do not need to sit down to eat or drink. If you have exclusive use of the venue, then you can follow the gathering rules. If you do not have exclusive use of the venue, and you are mixing with members of the public, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow hospitality advice. Hospitality at Orange --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask when attending a gathering, but it is encouraged. Workers and volunteers at gatherings must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. Performers and formal speakers do not need to wear a face mask when performing or speaking. They should wear face masks when not performing or speaking. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Gatherings at marae can go ahead. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. He kupu āwhina i ngā marae | COVID-19 guidance for marae [PDF, 4.6 MB] --- Section Separator --- All faith-based services can go ahead. For example, services at a place of worship, or a prayer group in an individual's home. Guidelines for places of worship [PDF, 246 KB] --- Section Separator --- Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Orange. Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737. It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face masks. Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they legally must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility, and all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: not kiss or touch the body wash your hands thoroughly after the viewing. Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz: COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Orange Shopping and services You can always access food, healthcare and other basic needs at Orange, and visit other retail outlets. --- Section Separator --- You can always access these places at Orange: supermarkets dairies food banks pharmacies petrol stations essential health and disability services, including primary care services, specialist clinics, laboratories and imaging services, public and private hospitals, maternity care, hospice services, oral healthcare services, mental health care services, ambulances and emergency care aged residential care services if you are a resident public housing and social housing emergency accommodation for people in need. --- Section Separator --- Shops, including outdoor markets, banks and takeaway-only businesses, can open. Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements. They can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to enter the shop. You must wear a face mask when you are visiting a shop indoors. --- Section Separator --- You can use public transport or taxi and ride-share services. Some transport providers may require you to show My Vaccine Pass or a negative COVID-19 test result before boarding if you are aged 12 years and 3 months or above. Before you travel, make sure you check the requirements with your transport provider. --- Section Separator --- You can visit a close-proximity business at Orange. There is no limit to how many people can be present. Examples are: barbers hairdressers beauty salons driving instructors massage therapists. --- Section Separator --- You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at any traffic light setting. Examples of trades and home services are: getting home appliances fixed, like your fridge utility services, like gas and power cleaning for people who need assistance because of sickness or disability gardening services getting internet or other services installed or fixed locksmiths vet and pest management services. While they are inside your house it is recommended you: keep 1 metre apart from them, and wear a face mask. Tradespeople do not need to wear a face mask when inside people’s homes. --- Section Separator --- Face masks help reduce the spread of COVID-19. At Orange, you are encouraged to wear a face mask in public indoor settings wherever it is practical. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You can remove your face mask to eat or drink. Find a full list of where you must wear a face mask: When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retail advice under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Advice for health providers under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19: Aged care providers | health.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Businesses and workplaces Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. Some workers may need to be vaccinated. --- Section Separator --- Businesses and workplaces can open at Red. To slow the spread of the disease, we encourage those who can, to work from home. If you are a worker, talk to your employer or read more at employment.govt.nz Working at Red | employment.govt.nz (external link) How to run your business at Red | business.govt.nz (external link) Some critical workers may be able to return to work if they are a Household Contact, are fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. Find out more about the close contact exemption scheme | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- My Vaccine Pass requirements have been removed, but businesses can choose to continue to follow them. If you enter a business that is still following the requirements as a visitor or customer, you may be asked to show your My Vaccine Pass. Businesses may check your My Vaccine Pass, either by looking at it, or scanning it with the NZ Pass Verifier app. Children under 12 years and 3 months can enter businesses without a My Vaccine Pass. Find out when you need your My Vaccine Pass Shops and close-proximity businesses at Red Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- Workplaces can open at Red. To slow the spread of the disease, we also encourage those who can, to work from home. Working from home is not practical for everyone, but if it is a practical option for you, we are encouraging you to do so. Some workplaces may be covered by vaccine mandates. This means workers in businesses covered by the mandate must be vaccinated. COVID-19 vaccinations and work --- Section Separator --- If you are a business owner or manager, you should have a plan in place to protect your workers and customers if there is a positive case of COVID-19 in your workplace. Use the step-by-step guide on business.govt.nz to develop a plan. Managing the impact of COVID-19 cases at your business | business.govt.nz (external link) During the Omicron response, workers who at registered critical services who are a Household Contact may continue to work. They must be fully vaccinated and have no COVID-19 symptoms. More information about critical workers --- Section Separator --- We encourage you to wear a face mask whenever you leave the house. You must wear a face mask: on domestic flights on public transport, this includes Cook Strait Ferries but does not include passengers within their allocated carriage on specified Kiwirail services at indoor arrival and departure points for domestic flights and public transport if you are aged 8 years or over or are a student who is in Year 4 or above on public transport and Ministry of Education funded school transport in taxis or ride share vehicles inside a retail business, for example supermarkets, shopping malls, pharmacies, petrol stations, and takeaway food stores inside public venues or facilities, such as museums and libraries, but not at swimming pools at a vet clinic in an indoor setting at schools, for example classrooms and assemblies. This includes visitors, workers, and students and teachers in Years 4 to 13 inside at tertiary education facilities when visiting a licensed early childhood service at food and drink businesses, for example cafes, bars and restaurants — if you are seated indoors. You can take your mask off when seated and to eat and drink at close-proximity businesses, for example hairdressers, barbers, beauty salons at an indoor event at an indoor gathering, except when you have exclusive use of the venue or defined space when visiting the indoor area of a court or tribunal — unless the judicial officer does not require them at premises operated by local and central government agencies, social service providers, and NZ Police in the public area of premises operated by NZ Post Limited when visiting a health care service, for example a healthcare or aged care facility (unless you are a patient). You are not required to wear a face mask when visiting a voting place to vote in a general election. This applies to people going to cast their vote, and to anyone supporting or assisting them. Face masks at work --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Business support during COVID-19 is available from Work and Income. COVID-19 support for employers | workandincome.govt.nz (external link) If your workplace is in the primary sector, the Ministry for Primary Industries also has information. Operating under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | mpi.govt.nz (external link) Social service providers can find more information from the Ministry of Social Development. COVID-19 Protection Framework guidance for social service providers | msd.govt.nz (external link) Display posters to let everyone know what My Vaccine Pass requirements are in place at your business. Download My Vaccine Pass posters
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Events and public facilities Events Events can go ahead at Red. --- Section Separator --- Indoor events are limited to 200 people. Outdoor events have no capacity limits. Children and babies are included in the capacity limits — but not people working at events. You must wear a face mask at indoor events. When food and drink is being served, you must be seated and separated . --- Section Separator --- Controlled-access events involve ticketing, registration or another way to control access. They can be held either at a commercial or private venue. They can go ahead at Red. Examples are: auctions cinemas commercial recreation activities concert venues conferences private galleries sporting events stadiums. There can be up to 200 people in a defined space at the venue at any time, based on 1-metre physical distancing. This includes children, but not workers. Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- Generally, when food and drink is being served, you must remain seated and separated . You can move around when you are not being served or eating. In cinemas, theatres and stadiums, you can buy food and drink from the counter, but you must be seated when you consume it. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at an indoor event. You do not need to wear a face mask if the event is outdoors. Event workers and volunteers must wear a face mask at indoor events. They do not need to wear face masks at outdoor events. Performers and entertainers do not need to wear a face mask when performing and if they can keep 2 metre physical distance from the audience at all times. When to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Event organisers can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz Event information under the COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Defined spaces --- Section Separator --- Indoor spaces are generally considered to be venues that: are enclosed by a ceiling and walls, or other similar structures, and do not have much, if any, flow of fresh air. Examples include many gyms, nightclubs, restaurants and halls. Indoor space is a single defined space if there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces. It does not matter if there is shared air between the spaces. Indoor defined spaces can include temporary structures, like marquees, that are enclosed by temporary walls on multiple sides or plastic domes. Outdoor spaces are generally considered to be places that have good ventilation, with a decent amount of free flowing, fresh air coming into the space. For example, this could be because the venue: does not have a roof has fewer than 4 walls, or because its walls do not go all the way up and still allow a significant amount of air flow. An outdoor space is a single defined space if: there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces, or there is at least 2 metres separating everyone in the gathering space from people who are outside that space and who are not attending the gathering. Outdoor defined spaces can include: areas cordoned off with rope, fencing, barriers or bollards with clear entry and exit points. temporary structures, like marquees with sides rolled up and gazebos. Some venues are made up of indoor and outdoor spaces. The activity that occurs in these indoor spaces should determine what capacity limit applies to the indoor space — the rule follows the activity. This means that: retail capacity limits (capacity based on 1 metre distancing) generally apply to the indoor places in which people: travel directly through to get to an outdoor space, and/or need to go so they can purchase things (for example food, to eat when back outdoors), and/or need to go to use the bathroom. travel directly through to get to an outdoor space, and/or need to go so they can purchase things (for example food, to eat when back outdoors), and/or need to go to use the bathroom. indoor capacity limits (of up to 200 people based on 1 metre distancing) generally apply to indoor spaces if people are using the space for purposes other than those listed directly above. If there is more than 1 space on the premises, people using the space (other than workers), cannot mix with other people using, entering, or leaving the premises. Workers can move between gatherings held in different defined spaces. Every venue is different, so it is up to the venue owner or gathering organiser to put measures in place to stop groups of people mixing within each defined space. To ensure groups do not mix, consider: separate entry and exit points staggering start times for events or gatherings separate bathrooms different service counters for food and drinks, and areas where people go up to pay. Guidance on capacity limits in indoor and outdoor spaces [PDF, 84 KB] You do not need to wear a face mask at an indoor gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space. This means that the area can be closed off to the public and is used only by people attending your event or gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering. All workers must wear a face mask at indoor gatherings unless they are exempt. Some venues and facilities may have capacity limits based on their defined space. Capacity limits are based on the number of people who could be in the defined space if everyone stands 1 metre apart, and are limited to a maximum of 200 people. Smaller spaces may need to have fewer than 200 people. When you are working out the maximum number of people allowed in each defined space, do not include workers. More information about gathering limits at Red: Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae --- Section Separator --- Indoor spaces are generally considered to be venues that: are enclosed by a ceiling and walls, or other similar structures, and do not have much, if any, flow of fresh air. Examples include many gyms, nightclubs, restaurants and halls. Indoor space is a single defined space if there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces. It does not matter if there is shared air between the spaces. Indoor defined spaces can include temporary structures, like marquees, that are enclosed by temporary walls on multiple sides or plastic domes. --- Section Separator --- Outdoor spaces are generally considered to be places that have good ventilation, with a decent amount of free flowing, fresh air coming into the space. For example, this could be because the venue: does not have a roof has fewer than 4 walls, or because its walls do not go all the way up and still allow a significant amount of air flow. An outdoor space is a single defined space if: there are walls (permanent or temporary) that divide the space from other spaces, or there is at least 2 metres separating everyone in the gathering space from people who are outside that space and who are not attending the gathering. Outdoor defined spaces can include: areas cordoned off with rope, fencing, barriers or bollards with clear entry and exit points. temporary structures, like marquees with sides rolled up and gazebos. --- Section Separator --- Some venues are made up of indoor and outdoor spaces. The activity that occurs in these indoor spaces should determine what capacity limit applies to the indoor space — the rule follows the activity. This means that: retail capacity limits (capacity based on 1 metre distancing) generally apply to the indoor places in which people: travel directly through to get to an outdoor space, and/or need to go so they can purchase things (for example food, to eat when back outdoors), and/or need to go to use the bathroom. travel directly through to get to an outdoor space, and/or need to go so they can purchase things (for example food, to eat when back outdoors), and/or need to go to use the bathroom. indoor capacity limits (of up to 200 people based on 1 metre distancing) generally apply to indoor spaces if people are using the space for purposes other than those listed directly above. If there is more than 1 space on the premises, people using the space (other than workers), cannot mix with other people using, entering, or leaving the premises. Workers can move between gatherings held in different defined spaces. Every venue is different, so it is up to the venue owner or gathering organiser to put measures in place to stop groups of people mixing within each defined space. To ensure groups do not mix, consider: separate entry and exit points staggering start times for events or gatherings separate bathrooms different service counters for food and drinks, and areas where people go up to pay. Guidance on capacity limits in indoor and outdoor spaces [PDF, 84 KB] --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask at an indoor gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space. This means that the area can be closed off to the public and is used only by people attending your event or gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering. All workers must wear a face mask at indoor gatherings unless they are exempt. --- Section Separator --- Some venues and facilities may have capacity limits based on their defined space. Capacity limits are based on the number of people who could be in the defined space if everyone stands 1 metre apart, and are limited to a maximum of 200 people. Smaller spaces may need to have fewer than 200 people. When you are working out the maximum number of people allowed in each defined space, do not include workers. --- Section Separator --- More information about gathering limits at Red: Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae --- Section Separator --- Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae at Red — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Visiting friends and whānau Defined spaces Public and private gatherings Faith-based gatherings Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Marae at Red — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Visiting friends and whānau Defined spaces Travel and accommodation Businesses and workplaces Hospitality venues Shopping and services Events and public facilities Education Moving, buying and selling your home Sport and recreation
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Faith-based gatherings You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. --- Section Separator --- Faith-based gatherings can go ahead. Indoor faith-based gatherings are limited to 200 people. Outdoor faith-based gatherings have no limit . Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not people working (including volunteers) at a gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask if your gathering is outside, or when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. --- Section Separator --- A gathering is a group of people who are intermingling. Most faith-based services are gatherings. Examples of faith-based gatherings that can go ahead at Red include: services at places of worship prayer group at home weddings funerals and tangihanga. Weddings at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Marae at Red Events have different rules to gatherings. Events control access by using tickets, registration, a fee or another way of controlling entry. For example, a ticketed concert held at a place of worship is an event. Events at Red Encourage contactless donations instead of a cash collection box. Consider offering online services so people who cannot attend in person can participate. Clean and sanitise musical instruments thoroughly before and after use. --- Section Separator --- Guidelines for places of worship [PDF, 246 KB] --- Section Separator --- Indoor faith-based gatherings are limited to 200 people. Outdoor faith-based gatherings have no limit. Workers (paid or unpaid) at a gathering — for example, the person leading the service and musicians — are not included in the gathering limits. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits. At all gatherings, you do not need to physically distance. This means you can move around, mingle with others and dance. --- Section Separator --- Face mask requirements for people at the gathering who are not working will depend on where and how the gathering is held: You must wear a face mask at an indoor gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoors gathering, or when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with gathering attendees. Where face masks are required, you can remove them to eat and drink. Face masks must not be removed while singing. If 2 metres away from others, performers and workers presenting to an audience can remove their face masks. All workers (paid or unpaid) at faith-based gatherings must wear a face mask throughout the gathering. When to wear a face mask Face mask exemptions Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your faith-based gathering, but people should not share drinks, cups, plates, cutlery or other items. People do not need to sit down to eat or drink, unless your gathering is at a hospitality venue. If you have exclusive use of the venue, then you can follow the gathering rules. If you do not have exclusive use of the venue, and you are mixing with members of the public, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow hospitality advice. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Funerals, tangihanga and last rites Funerals and tangihanga can go ahead at Red, with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Losing a friend or loved one can be an extremely difficult and challenging time. This may be even more difficult if you have experienced bereavement and grief during COVID-19. At higher settings of the traffic light system, we may need to adapt traditions and adopt new ways of farewelling our loved ones. If you ever feel you are not coping, it is important to talk with a health professional. If you need to talk, you can call or text 1737 . It is free, anytime, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to talk with a trained counsellor. --- Section Separator --- Funerals, tangihanga, burials and viewing of tūpāpaku (the person who has died) can go ahead at Red. There can be up to 200 people in a single defined space at an indoor venue at any time. The limit includes children under 12, whānau pani and ringawera. There is no limit to how many people can be at an outdoor venue. This applies to funerals and tangihanga held at: funeral homes marae churches, mosques and other faith-based places of worship hired venues or facilities private homes You can travel anywhere to attend a funeral, tangihanga, burial or viewing. You can serve food and drink. Defined spaces at Red A marae can have multiple groups of 200 people coming through to attend a tangihanga — as long as the groups are not on the marae at the same time and do not mix with each other. Marae must make sure they clean all rooms and areas between groups. Advice for marae at Red Funeral directors, faith-based leaders, whānau and friends can handle and go and view the tūpāpaku (the person who has died). Up to 200 people can view the tūpāpaku, if everyone is fully vaccinated. You can provide or help others provide services to a tūpāpaku if you are fully vaccinated. This can include: washing dressing shrouding other preparations for cremation or burial. Advice for handling, viewing and storing tūpāpaku | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Priests, imam and religious celebrants can provide last rites in a hospital, hospice or private residence. If the person they are visiting who is dying is in a health facility, they must follow the: visiting rules of the health facility, and all relevant infection prevention and control procedures. --- Section Separator --- You do not need to wear a face mask if the funeral or tangihanga has exclusive use of a venue. We encourage you to wear a face mask in shared areas — if there are other activities happening at the venue at the same time. Workers at funerals and tangihanga must wear face masks — unless they are exempt. Workers hosting or officiating the service do not need to wear a face mask when speaking and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. When you need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- There is currently no known risk from being in the same room at a funeral or visitation service with someone who has died of COVID-19. The World Health Organization advises that friends and whānau may view the body after it has been prepared for burial. You should: not kiss or touch the body wash your hands thoroughly after the viewing physically distance from others of at least 1 metre. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders can find more information on health.govt.nz COVID-19: Funeral directors, religious and faith-based leaders | health.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Marae at Red — He kupu āwhina i ngā marae Marae can open at Whero (Red), with indoor gatherings limited to 200 people. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings at marae can go ahead. There can be up to 200 people in a single defined indoor space at the marae at a time. There is no limit on outdoor gatherings. Children, babies, whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the gathering limits — but not people working (including volunteers). Manuhiri (visitors to the marae) do not need to wear a face mask if they are the only group using the defined space and other manuhiri cannot mix. --- Section Separator --- At Whero, gatherings at marae can go ahead. Whānau, hapū and iwi may need to adapt their tikanga and kawa to meet public health guidelines. --- Section Separator --- There can be up to 200 people in a single defined space at the marae at a time. This number includes tamariki under the age of 12 years and 3 months. Defined spaces at Red Whānau pani, paepae, taumata and ringawera are included in the number limits on marae. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend if the gathering is outdoors. You do not need to physically distance when attending a gathering at a marae. Public and private gatherings at Red Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red --- Section Separator --- Workers and volunteers at a marae must wear a face mask when indoors. If you cannot wear a face mask, for example for medical reasons, you can get an exemption card. Manuhiri (visitors to the marae) do not need to wear a face mask if their gathering is outdoors, or if the gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix. Manuhiri must wear a face mask if the defined space is indoors and shared with other groups or members of the public. Face masks can be removed to eat or drink. They can also be removed by kaikōrero if they can keep 2 metres away from their audience at all times. When you need to wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- You can serve kai. Decisions about how to serve kai will be made by Marae Kōmiti. Marae may choose to continue using options like takeaway lunches or eating outside. People serving or handling kai must wear a face mask. --- Section Separator --- Overnight stays are permitted on marae. The same rules apply as day time visits. --- Section Separator --- Marae often have large groups of people visiting and gathering together. There are some simple things marae can do to keep whānau safe: Clean surfaces and rooms in between groups. Ask people with cold, flu or COVID-19 symptoms to stay home. Modify tikanga that involves close contact — for example hongi and harirū. --- Section Separator --- He kupu āwhina i ngā marae | COVID-19 guidance for marae [PDF, 4.6 MB]
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Public and private gatherings You can have up to 200 people at an indoor gathering at Red. Outdoor gatherings have no limit. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings can go ahead. Indoor gatherings are limited to 200 people. Outdoor gatherings have no limit . Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not people working at a gathering. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering, or when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. At all gatherings, people do not need to physically distance. --- Section Separator --- Gatherings can go ahead at Red. A gathering is a group of people in a defined space, but does not include a group of people at an event. Types of gatherings include: catching up with friends and whānau weddings and civil union ceremonies most faith-based gatherings get-togethers and parties at your home club functions social sports funerals and tangihanga most gatherings at marae street parades free public concerts in a park community fairs. Find more information: Faith-based gatherings at Red Weddings and civil unions at Red Funerals and tangihanga at Red Marae at Red --- Section Separator --- Gatherings at your home or a private dwelling are limited to 200 people . Gatherings at other indoor venues are limited to a maximum of 200 people. It is the responsibility of the venue to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Smaller venues will be limited to fewer than 200 people. There is no limit to the number of people who can attend an outdoor gathering. Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink at your gathering. People at the gathering do not need to sit down to eat or drink. If you have exclusive use of the venue, then you can follow the gathering rules. If you do not have exclusive use of the venue, and you are mixing with members of the public, for example at a restaurant, you need to follow hospitality advice. Hospitality at Red --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at an indoor gathering if the defined space is shared with other groups or members of the public. You do not need to wear a face mask at an outdoor gathering, or at an indoor gathering when your gathering is the only one using the defined space and other people cannot mix with your guests. This means that you do not need to wear a face mask at most weddings, funerals or tangihanga, or faith-based gatherings. Everyone working at the gathering must wear a face mask — unless they are exempt. Performers do not need to wear a face mask when performing and if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. They should wear face masks when not performing. When to wear a face mask Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- You can go to a faith-based gathering, such as attending a place of worship, at Red. Advice for faith-based gatherings --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Gatherings and visits Weddings and civil unions at Red You can get married or form a civil union, and attend a wedding or civil union at Red. --- Section Separator --- Weddings and civil union ceremonies can go ahead. Indoor ceremonies are limited to 200 people. Outdoor ceremonies have no limit . Children and babies are included in the gathering limits — but not workers, such as the celebrant or the photographer. You do not have to wear a face mask for outdoor ceremonies, or if you have exclusive use of a defined space for your wedding or civil union. You do not have to physically distance — this means you can dance and mingle. --- Section Separator --- You can have 200 people if your wedding or civil union is at a private home or dwelling. Children and babies are included in the gathering limits. The 200-person limit does not include people working at the wedding or civil union ceremony, such as the celebrant, photographer, performers and catering staff. Friends and whānau participating in the ceremony are not included as workers. If your ceremony is outdoors, there is no limit to the number of people who can attend. These are limited to a maximum of up to 200 people based on 1-metre physical distancing. The capacity limit is based on the maximum number of people who could occupy the space if each person was 1 metre apart. People do not have to keep 1 metre apart at the venue. This means if your wedding is at a smaller venue, you may be limited to fewer than 200 people. It is up to the venue owner to determine the capacity limits based on the size of their venue. Talk to the venue owner about the number of guests you can safely invite. --- Section Separator --- You and your guests do not need to wear a face mask if your ceremony is outdoors, or if you have exclusive use of an indoor defined space for your wedding or civil union ceremony — for example,if you have hired a lodge, hall or vineyard. This includes weddings held at private homes. You and your guests must wear a face mask if you do not have exclusive use of the defined space where the wedding is taking place — for example, if members of the public also have access to it. You can take your face mask off to eat and drink. Workers at the wedding or civil union ceremony must wear a face mask, unless they are exempt. Performers, such as a band, do not need to wear a face mask when performing if they are able to keep 2 metres physical distance. They must wear face masks when not performing. When you need to wear a face mask Defined spaces at Red --- Section Separator --- Everyone can move around, dance and mingle. Singing and other types of performance are also allowed. --- Section Separator --- You and your guests do not need to physically distance. --- Section Separator --- You can serve food and drink. If you have exclusively hired a venue for your wedding or civil union ceremony, people do not need to sit down to eat or drink.
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Hospitality venues Hospitality venues, such as cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs, can open at Red. --- Section Separator --- Cafes, bars, restaurants and nightclubs can open at Red. There can be up to 200 people indoors , including children. There are no capacity limits outdoors . Customers must be seated and separated from other groups indoors. You must wear a face mask when going to a hospitality venue — you can take your mask off when outdoors, seated and to eat and drink, but you must wear a face mask when paying, using the bathroom and entering and exiting the venue. Public-facing workers must wear face masks. Takeaway businesses can open. --- Section Separator --- There can be up to 200 people indoors, including children. The limit does not include workers. There is no limit for outdoor venues . Customers must be seated and separated from other groups indoors. Nightclubs can open, but customers must be seated and separated, which means dancing is not allowed. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Food and drink service guidelines | Business.govt.nz (external link) Food courts do not need to follow the seated and separated rules or the capacity limits unless they are serving alcohol. Otherwise, food courts should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Red You must wear a face mask when going to a hospitality venue — you can take your mask off when outdoors, seated and to eat and drink, but you must wear a face mask when paying, using the bathroom and entering and exiting the venue. Public-facing workers must wear medical grade face masks. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Food and beverage businesses that only offer takeaway, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can open. Takeaway services and food courts should follow the rules for retail. Retail at Red Order ahead, either online or over the phone. Wear a face mask. Prepay online, or use a contactless payment method, like PayWave. If you are using cash or touch the EFTPOS machine, we recommend you wash or sanitise your hands as soon as possible. You may be able to use reusable cups or containers. Check with the takeaway provider. Keep apart from others while waiting in a queue. Get it and go — make your visit as quick as possible. --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Hospitality businesses can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Food and drink service guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link) Takeaway businesses, such as coffee carts and food trucks, can find more detailed information on business.govt.nz: Retail guidelines | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Shops and close-proximity businesses Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses such as hairdressers can open at Red with restrictions. --- Section Separator --- Shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses can open at Red. The number of people allowed inside a business depends on how large the premises is. My Vaccine Pass is no longer required, but businesses can choose to ask to view yours as a condition of entry. You must wear a face mask indoors when visiting shops, retail outlets and close-proximity businesses. --- Section Separator --- Shops, including outdoor markets, banks, food courts and takeaway-only businesses, can open at Red. The number of people allowed at a retail outlet depends on how large the premises is. It is the responsibility of the business to ensure it complies with capacity limits based on its defined space and 1-metre physical distancing. Defined spaces and capacity limits | business.govt.nz (external link) Some retail businesses can choose to follow My Vaccine Pass requirements, though this does not change how many people can be there. If they do, they can require you to show your My Vaccine Pass to be at the shop. You will always be able to access basic needs like food. Supermarkets and dairies are not allowed to stop you from shopping there based on your vaccination status. Access to basic needs at Red --- Section Separator --- Examples of close-proximity businesses include hairdressers and beauty salons. You should keep 1 metre apart from other customers and workers, except when close contact is required to provide the service. Businesses may have additional restrictions under Red, for example, some hairdressers may choose to not provide refreshments. Check with the business before you go. These rules also apply to people providing close-proximity services in people’s homes — for example, mobile hairdressers. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask when visiting shops, indoor markets, banks, takeaway-only businesses and close-proximity businesses. You do not need to wear a face mask outdoors. You can remove your face mask to eat or drink. Workers at close-proximity businesses must wear face masks. At a close-proximity business you may be able to remove your face mask if you could not receive the service if you left it on. An example is having a beard trim. Check with the staff before you take your face mask off. Wear a face mask --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits --- Section Separator --- Retailers can find more information at business.govt.nz. Advice for retailers | business.govt.nz. (external link) Close-proximity businesses can find more  information at business.govt.nz. Guidelines for close-proximity services | business.govt.nz (external link)
Home Traffic lights Life at Red Shopping and services Trades and home services You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home at Red. --- Section Separator --- You can have tradespeople and home services inside your home. Tradespeople must wear a face mask. Do not invite tradespeople into your home if you are unwell, are isolating, or waiting for a COVID-19 test result. --- Section Separator --- Examples of trades and home services are: getting home appliances fixed, like your fridge utility services, like gas and power cleaning for people who need assistance because of sickness or disability gardening services getting internet or other services installed or fixed locksmiths vet and pest management services. While they are inside your house it is strongly recommended you: keep 1 metre apart from them, and wear a face mask. Tradespeople must wear a face mask when inside people’s homes. --- Section Separator --- Do not invite tradespeople or home service providers into your home if you: have been told to self-isolate are waiting for the results of a COVID-19 test are unwell. If you have COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Even though we are a highly vaccinated country, COVID-19 can still spread in our communities. Slow the spread of the virus by keeping up healthy habits. Keep up healthy habits
Home Traffic lights Resources for businesses Resources for businesses to help them operate safely at each of the traffic light settings. --- Section Separator --- Businesses and workplaces no longer need to display a QR code poster, but can choose to do so. Get your QR code poster (external link) Manage and reprint your QR code posters (external link) More information about NZ COVID Tracer QR codes | health.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Businesses can find advice on operating safely under each of the traffic light settings at business.govt.nz. COVID-19 Protection Framework | business.govt.nz (external link) Businesses can choose whether to require customers to have My Vaccine Passes as a condition of entry. If businesses choose to operate with My Vaccine Pass requirements, they must sight or verify customers' passes. Businesses can use the free NZ Pass Verifier app to check passes faster and easier. More information on NZ Pass Verifier | health.govt.nz (external link) Use our COVID-19 financial support tool to find out what support may be available for you and your employees. COVID-19 financial support tool Financial support for businesses | business.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Download and print posters to help keep your workplace safe.
Home Traffic lights Traffic lights map Search or browse for your local traffic light setting. --- Section Separator --- What you need to do under each traffic light setting: Life at Red Life at Orange Life at Green --- Section Separator --- Waka Kotahi’s Journey Planner uses the latest travel time information, traffic cameras, and updates on delays, roadworks and road closures to help you plan your journey. Use Journey Planner (external link)
