Home About this site Contact us Find contact information for Unite against COVID-19 Communications, Te Whatu Ora Health New Zealand. I am looking for... How to order, take and report a RAT Self-isolation rules Antiviral medicines Financial support Household Contacts International travel information Employment advice and assistance --- Section Separator --- For COVID-19 health advice call the dedicated COVID-19 Healthline, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week: for free on 0800 358 5453 on +64 9 358 5453 if you have an international SIM. --- Section Separator --- You must enable JavaScript to submit this form --- Section Separator --- Get support if you need an interpreter, or are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired. If you are deaf, hearing impaired, Deafblind or speech impaired you can use the New Zealand Relay Service to make a call. New Zealand Relay Services (external link) Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in alternate formats, including: New Zealand Sign Language Easy Read Large Print Audio Braille Audio description. Alternate formats Many government agencies have language support available if English is not your first language and you need an interpreter. When you call a government agency for information, ask for an interpreter in your language and wait to be connected. Information and advice about COVID-19 is available in many languages. Translations --- Section Separator --- You can contact Unite against COVID-19 Communications by using our online form above or by sending us a letter. If you are sending us feedback about our website, Covid19.govt.nz, please include a link to the webpage you have feedback about. Postal address: Unite against COVID-19 Communications Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand PO Box 793 Wellington New Zealand 6140 Follow Unite against COVID-19 and Te Whatu Ora Health — New Zealand on social media. Social media
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccines are free for everyone aged 5 and over. They’re also available to tamariki from 6 months who are at greater risk of severe illness if they were to get COVID-19. You might be interested in Children aged 5 to 11 Children 6 months to 4 years Proof of vaccination Using My Covid Record About Novavax Vaccine advice for disabled people COVID-19 vaccine data --- Section Separator --- Regardless of how many boosters you have had, you can get an additional booster now if you are: aged 30 and over pregnant, and aged 16 or over aged 12 to 29 and at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 . Find out more about boosters --- Section Separator --- Talk to the COVID Vaccination Healthline 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Translation services are available in over 40 languages, and there is the option to use NZ Relay Services. Call 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity levels high. Booster doses use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. All vaccination mandates have ended. For health and safety, some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated against COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- Everyone in Aotearoa New Zealand aged 5 and over can get a free COVID-19 vaccine now. You can get a booster if you are aged 16 or over. Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity levels high. Booster doses use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. Find out what will happen at your COVID-19 vaccination appointments. Find out about vaccination side effects and what to do if you experience them. Get accurate and reliable advice about COVID-19 vaccination, including vaccination for children and people who are pregnant, and information about the Pfizer and Novavax vaccines. Find out how to get vaccine passes and certificates that you can use as proof of vaccination in New Zealand and when travelling overseas. All vaccination mandates have ended. For health and safety, some employers may still require workers to be vaccinated against COVID-19.
Home COVID-19 vaccines COVID-19 vaccine boosters Boosters provide an extra layer of protection to your previous vaccination and keep your immunity levels high. Booster doses use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. --- Section Separator --- Regardless of how many boosters you have had, you can get an additional booster now if you are: aged 30 and over pregnant, and aged 16 or over aged 12 to 29 and at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 . --- Section Separator --- Having COVID-19 does not provide the same level of immunity as getting vaccinated. We also know that your protection from the primary course (this is usually 2 doses) of the vaccine decreases over time. To keep your immunity levels high, stay up to date with your vaccinations — including boosters. This will lower your chances of getting very sick from COVID-19 and ending up in hospital. For boosters, we use the Pfizer BA.4/5 bivalent vaccine. This is an updated vaccine targeting Omicron. COVID-19 vaccines are free. The bivalent vaccine produces an immune response against the original virus and Omicron variants. Specifically the BA.4 and BA.5 subvariants. Current evidence indicates the bivalent vaccine is more effective against Omicron subvariants than earlier vaccines. If you do not want the bivalent vaccine, you can ask for the original Pfizer vaccine when you arrive for your vaccination. --- Section Separator --- If you are 30 years of age and over, you can have a booster regardless of the number of boosters you have already had. You can have a booster if: you have had your first 2 COVID-19 vaccinations (your primary course) it is recommended you wait at least 6 months since you had COVID-19 it is recommended you wait at least 6 months since you had any other COVID-19 vaccine. Boosters are especially recommended for: all people over 65 years old Māori and Pacific people aged 50 and over pregnant people with health conditions that put them at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 people with disability with significant or complex health needs people with serious mental health conditions young people aged 12 to 15 who have a medical condition that increases the risk of severe illness from COVID-19 — talk to your usual doctor, nurse or healthcare provider about whether this is recommended and how to get a prescription. --- Section Separator --- Healthy people aged 16 to 29 can have a 1 booster dose. To get a booster: you must have had at least your first 2 COVID-19 vaccinations, and it is recommended you wait at least 6 months since your last COVID-19 vaccine or infection. Some people aged 16 to 29 can have an additional booster dose. This includes: severely immunocompromised people pregnant people those who have a medical condition that increases the risk of severe illness from COVID-19 those who live with disability with significant or complex health needs or multiple comorbidities. --- Section Separator --- Healthy children under 16 years old are not eligible for boosters. Young people aged 12 to 15 who have a medical condition that increases the risk of severe illness from COVID-19 can get a booster dose on prescription. Talk to your doctor, nurse, or healthcare provider about whether this is recommended and how to get a prescription. --- Section Separator --- Children under the age of 12 cannot get a booster. You can talk to your doctor, nurse or healthcare provider about your child's specific circumstances. Children have a good immune response and are much less likely to have a severe illness and need to go to hospital if they get COVID-19. --- Section Separator --- You can check the date of your last vaccination in My Covid Record. Visit My Covid Record (external link) To find out over the phone, call the COVID Vaccination Healthline. You can call between 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. Call: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- It is free, fast and easy to book or change your appointments using the website Book My Vaccine. Book My Vaccine (external link) Before you book, check the appointment availability map. It can show you where vaccination sites are, how soon you can get an appointment, and which vaccine types are available. Appointment availability map | bookmyvaccine.health.nz (external link) If you have problems booking or need to change your details, email booking@vaccine.covid19.health.nz The COVID-19 Vaccination Healthline is available from 8am to 8pm, 7 days a week. You can ask for an interpreter if you need one. Call: 0800 28 29 26 --- Section Separator --- There are many places around New Zealand where you can get a COVID-19 vaccine without an appointment. COVID-19 vaccinations, no appointment required | Healthpoint (external link) --- Section Separator --- When you get a booster it is added to My Covid Record. You can then download another International Travel Vaccination Certificate or vaccination record. Visit My Covid Record (external link)
Home News and data Data and statistics The Government collects and publishes a range of data and statistics about COVID-19 in New Zealand. Data and statistics available: COVID-19 cases Vaccine data COVID-19 data portal Resources for more data --- Section Separator --- Last updated 15 May 2023 The Ministry of Health collects data about cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. This includes: current COVID-19 cases case demographics source of COVID-19 cases. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more case data. COVID-19 current cases | Ministry of Health (external link) 247 Cases in hospital as at midnight Sunday 247 Cases in hospital as at midnight Sunday 1,672 New case 7-day rolling average 1,672 New case 7-day rolling average 11,739 New cases reported in the last week 11,739 New cases reported in the last week 138 People reinfected within 90 days (in the last week) 138 People reinfected within 90 days (in the last week) --- Section Separator --- You can filter case numbers by health districts, age groups, and first infections and reinfections. COVID-19 data charts | Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 15 May 2023 The Ministry of Health reports on how many people have died of COVID-19 and deaths related to COVID-19. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more data. COVID-19 current cases data | Ministry of Health (external link) 8 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 8 7-day rolling average of COVID-19-related deaths 2,850 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) 2,850 People who have died of COVID-19 (or it was a contributing factor) --- Section Separator --- Last updated 15 May 2023 The Ministry of Health collects information on testing rates around New Zealand. Data is updated weekly on a Monday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more testing data. Testing for COVID-19 | Ministry of Health (external link) 2,167 7-day rolling average of RATs each day 2,167 7-day rolling average of RATs each day 7,099 PCR tests in the past week 7,099 PCR tests in the past week --- Section Separator --- Last updated 10 May 2023 The Ministry of Health collects data and statistics about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in New Zealand. Data is updated weekly on a Wednesday . Visit the Ministry of Health website for more vaccine data. COVID-19 vaccine data | Ministry of Health (external link) The dataset used to calculate the percentage of people vaccinated changed in August 2022. Find out more on the Te Whatu Ora website: Updated health user information informs COVID-19 vaccination programme | Te Whatu Ora (external link) 73.2% Percentage of eligible 18+ who have received first booster 73.2% Percentage of eligible 18+ who have received first booster 89.3% Percentage of 12+ who have completed primary course 89.3% Percentage of 12+ who have completed primary course 270,829 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 270,829 Paediatric first doses (ages 5 to 11) 157,012 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 157,012 Paediatric second doses (ages 5 to 11) 2,762,529 Booster first doses 2,762,529 Booster first doses 876,185 Booster second doses 876,185 Booster second doses 90 Infant first dose (age 6 months to 4 years) 90 Infant first dose (age 6 months to 4 years) 53 Infant second dose (age 6 months to 4 years) 53 Infant second dose (age 6 months to 4 years) --- Section Separator --- Check our map to find out how many people in your area have been vaccinated for COVID-19. You can get data for the whole population, and the Māori and Pacific populations. COVID-19 vaccinations around New Zealand --- Section Separator --- Stats NZ has developed and maintains a COVID-19 data portal. It reports on economic, health, environmental and social aspects of COVID-19’s impact on New Zealand and its recovery. COVID-19 data portal | Stats NZ (external link) --- Section Separator --- If data collected by the Ministry of Health or MBIE is not what you need, you can find more sources of data related to COVID-19. Examples include the ESR dashboard, the World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 dashboard and, for researchers, the ability to request detailed COVID-19 data. COVID-19 data resources | Ministry of Health (external link)
Home News and data Report a breach --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the current COVID-19 rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Summary of current rules Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements You must enable JavaScript to submit this form --- Section Separator --- If you are concerned that someone is not following the current COVID-19 rules, you can report it to the COVID-19 Compliance Centre. Summary of current rules Report a breach online (external link) If someone is not wearing a face mask, they may have a legitimate reason. You do not need to report them. Face mask guidance and requirements --- Section Separator --- You must enable JavaScript to submit this form --- Section Separator --- Latest news Media conferences Data and statistics Map of COVID-19 vaccination rates in New Zealand Social media Report a breach
Home Prepare and stay safe Misinformation, scams and online harm Report false or misleading information If you see content that you believe to be false or misleading you can report it. --- Section Separator --- We can all help stop the spread of misinformation by reporting fake accounts, or pages and domains that repeatedly post or share misinformation. Most misinformation and disinformation is legal. And people have the right to express their opinion. But if you see content on social media that you believe to be false or misleading, you can report it to the hosting social media platform. Here is how to do it: How do I mark a Facebook post as false news? — Facebook.com (external link) Report inappropriate content — YouTube.com (external link) Report a tweet, list or direct message — Twitter.com (external link) Reduce the spread of false information — Instagram.com (external link) Staying safe on Whatsapp — WhatsApp.com (external link) Report a problem — TikTok.com (external link) Report to Netsafe any online harms including bullying and harassment, misinformation and hate speech/extremism. Report harmful content | netsafe.org.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- Scammers look for ways to trick people into sharing their personal or financial details. Scams and fraud exploiting COVID-19 may appear by email, text messaging, instant messaging, phone call, or through social media. Remember: the COVID-19 vaccine is free you will never be asked to pay for the vaccine or pay to secure your place in the queue we will never ask for your financial details, your bank card details, PIN or banking password official information about the vaccine will come from a trusted provider of health content, such as the Ministry of Health, Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand, Unite against COVID-19, or your local district health provider a health worker will never come to your home to give you the vaccine, unless arranged with you beforehand if you receive an email, phone call, text message, or instant message asking for financial details in regards to the vaccine it will be a scam. Report it to CERT NZ immediately. CERT NZ works to support businesses, organisations and individuals who are affected (or may be affected) by cyber security incidents. They are also the public reporting point for online scams. Report a scam — CERT NZ (external link) Scamwatch Consumer protection website (external link) COVID-19-related scams: Financial Markets Authority (external link) --- Section Separator --- If anyone in your family or whānau receives inappropriate contact online, you can make a non-emergency report to the police on 105 . Call 111 for emergencies. Report a non-emergency to the police | police.govt.nz (external link) --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- There is misinformation, scams and online harm about COVID-19 and vaccines in many places. Find out what they mean. Just because a post looks good does not mean it is reliable information. Check before you share. You can find the most accurate and reliable information about COVID-19 and the vaccine from several trusted sources. --- Section Separator --- Follow our whānau as they visit a museum to see an exhibition called 'A Brief History of Misinformation'. As they explore the displays, they find out what an infodemic is, learn how to talk with those close friends and family affected by misinformation, as well as how to deal with misinformation on social media. Watch video
Home Prepare and stay safe Protect yourself and others Face masks Wearing a face mask --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at most healthcare services as a visitor. We encourage you to wear a face mask in crowded places, such as public transport, or when visiting people in the community who are at high risk of getting very sick from COVID-19. Your face mask must attach to your face by loops around your ears or head. If you are unable to wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can get free face masks when you pick up RATs from a testing centre. P2/N95 face masks will be available for people at higher risk of severe illness. Find a testing site with free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) You must wear a face mask when visiting most healthcare services. This is to help protect those at higher risk of getting very sick from COVID-19. For example, you must wear a face mask if you are a visitor to: doctors' clinics community and iwi health providers pharmacies — excluding pharmacies inside supermarkets hospitals urgent care services, such as after-hours clinics disability support services residential care for older people and people with disabilities diagnostic services such as blood testing or radiology services dentists and oral health services other health services such as optometrists, physiotherapists, or chiropractors. You do not need to wear a face mask if: you live at a residential care service you visit psychotherapy, counselling, or mental health and addiction services. For patients in healthcare services, face masks are recommended if you have symptoms and are not self-isolating. They are encouraged in healthcare situations where other people may be unwell, such as waiting rooms. Check local guidance for face masks. If you need medicines and are unwell or self-isolating, talk to your pharmacy about contactless medicine delivery options. Te Whatu Ora - Health New Zealand has information for staff about using personal protective equipment (PPE) such as face masks. Healthcare workers should follow local masking guidance, and the Te Whatu Ora infection prevention and control recommendations. COVID-19: Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers - Te Whatu Ora (external link) As cases rise, we strongly encourage you to wear a face mask in closed, crowded and confined spaces. Face masks help protect yourself and others around you, especially people who are at higher risk of getting very sick. This includes older people, people with compromised immunity and disabled people. We encourage you to wear a face mask if you are: a Household Contact and testing daily for 5 days at higher risk of getting seriously ill from COVID-19 keen to reduce your risk of becoming sick. We also encourage you to wear a face mask in these places: public transport, including buses, commuter trains, indoors on ferries, flights, taxis and ride-shares crowded places enclosed spaces with poor ventilation close contact settings, such as face-to-face conversations. We strongly recommend patients at any healthcare service wear a face mask if they can. Some healthcare services may ask you to wear a face mask whatever your reason for being there. Some places, such as workplaces, special events or marae, may still ask you to wear a face mask as a condition of entry. This is their decision and no longer a government requirement. Face masks remain an important defence against COVID-19. The government will regularly review their use. You can get free medical face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. To get free face masks, order online: Request free RATs and face masks | Ministry of Health (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 Face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Mask Exemption Pass — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Advice for people who have difficulties wearing a face mask Visit My Covid Record (external link) Text 8988 (for hearing impaired) Call 0800 11 12 13 When applying for a Mask Exemption Pass, you are making a legal declaration that at least 1 of these applies to you. A physical illness. A mental illness. A condition or disability. These categories may not specifically explain your situation, choose the one that best suits you. You can apply on behalf of someone else using these options. --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask at most healthcare services as a visitor. We encourage you to wear a face mask in crowded places, such as public transport, or when visiting people in the community who are at high risk of getting very sick from COVID-19. Your face mask must attach to your face by loops around your ears or head. If you are unable to wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. You can get free face masks when you pick up RATs from a testing centre. P2/N95 face masks will be available for people at higher risk of severe illness. Find a testing site with free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) --- Section Separator --- You must wear a face mask when visiting most healthcare services. This is to help protect those at higher risk of getting very sick from COVID-19. For example, you must wear a face mask if you are a visitor to: doctors' clinics community and iwi health providers pharmacies — excluding pharmacies inside supermarkets hospitals urgent care services, such as after-hours clinics disability support services residential care for older people and people with disabilities diagnostic services such as blood testing or radiology services dentists and oral health services other health services such as optometrists, physiotherapists, or chiropractors. You do not need to wear a face mask if: you live at a residential care service you visit psychotherapy, counselling, or mental health and addiction services. For patients in healthcare services, face masks are recommended if you have symptoms and are not self-isolating. They are encouraged in healthcare situations where other people may be unwell, such as waiting rooms. Check local guidance for face masks. If you need medicines and are unwell or self-isolating, talk to your pharmacy about contactless medicine delivery options. Te Whatu Ora - Health New Zealand has information for staff about using personal protective equipment (PPE) such as face masks. Healthcare workers should follow local masking guidance, and the Te Whatu Ora infection prevention and control recommendations. COVID-19: Infection prevention and control recommendations for health and disability care workers - Te Whatu Ora (external link) --- Section Separator --- As cases rise, we strongly encourage you to wear a face mask in closed, crowded and confined spaces. Face masks help protect yourself and others around you, especially people who are at higher risk of getting very sick. This includes older people, people with compromised immunity and disabled people. We encourage you to wear a face mask if you are: a Household Contact and testing daily for 5 days at higher risk of getting seriously ill from COVID-19 keen to reduce your risk of becoming sick. We also encourage you to wear a face mask in these places: public transport, including buses, commuter trains, indoors on ferries, flights, taxis and ride-shares crowded places enclosed spaces with poor ventilation close contact settings, such as face-to-face conversations. We strongly recommend patients at any healthcare service wear a face mask if they can. Some healthcare services may ask you to wear a face mask whatever your reason for being there. Some places, such as workplaces, special events or marae, may still ask you to wear a face mask as a condition of entry. This is their decision and no longer a government requirement. Face masks remain an important defence against COVID-19. The government will regularly review their use. --- Section Separator --- You can get free medical face masks when you pick up rapid antigen tests (RATs) from a testing centre. You do not need to be unwell or have COVID-19 symptoms. To get free face masks, order online: Request free RATs and face masks | Ministry of Health (external link) Find a testing site that offers free face masks | Healthpoint (external link) If you are at higher risk of severe illness, you can get free P2/N95 face masks. People at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Face masks are unsuitable for some people due to disabilities or health conditions. If you cannot wear a face mask, you can apply for a Mask Exemption Pass. It can help make it easier to explain that a face mask is unsuitable for you. You do not have to show a Mask Exemption Pass — but it may help you feel more comfortable. Advice for people who have difficulties wearing a face mask Visit My Covid Record (external link) Text 8988 (for hearing impaired) Call 0800 11 12 13 When applying for a Mask Exemption Pass, you are making a legal declaration that at least 1 of these applies to you. A physical illness. A mental illness. A condition or disability. These categories may not specifically explain your situation, choose the one that best suits you. You can apply on behalf of someone else using these options. --- Section Separator --- Face masks Wearing a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Advice for people who have difficulties wearing a face mask Wearing a face mask Types of face masks How to wear a face mask safely How to make a face mask Advice for people who have difficulties wearing a face mask Keep track of where you have been Ventilation and COVID-19
Home Testing and isolation If you have COVID-19 If you have COVID-19 you need to self-isolate for 7 days. Find out what else you need to do. --- Section Separator --- Find detailed advice about managing your symptoms and what to do while you are self-isolating on Te Whatu Ora — Heath New Zealand's COVID-19 Health Hub. COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- If you have taken a rapid antigen test (RAT), report your positive result online or by calling the helpline. Online: My Covid Record (external link) Call: 0800 222 478 (choose option 3) How to report your RAT result Te Whatu Ora — Health New Zealand will then send you a text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers to confirm your positive result. This has information about self-isolation, support options, and a 6-digit access code for the online contact tracing form. If you had a PCR test, you will get a text message with your result. If your employer asks to see proof that you must isolate, you can use this text message. You do not need a medical certificate from a doctor. --- Section Separator --- You must self-isolate for 7 days while you recover. This includes if you have had COVID-19 before. Day 0 is the day your symptoms started or when you tested positive, whichever came first. Create your household isolation and testing timeline | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) Your Household Contacts do not need to isolate. They should test daily for 5 days. If they test positive, they need to begin 7 days of isolation as someone with COVID-19. Advice for your Household Contacts --- Section Separator --- You must stay at home and avoid contact with other people in your household. Find out what to do when self-isolating, including permitted reasons to leave self-isolation, and how to ventilate your home. How to self-isolate Ventilation and COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- Complete Te Whatu Ora’s contact tracing form using your 6-digit access code. (You can find this code in the text message from the official 2328 or 2648 numbers .) For most people, the form will take 5 to 10 minutes to fill in. If you are at higher risk of severe illness from COVID-19 and do not complete the form within 12 hours, you will get a phone call. How to use the contact tracing form You also need to tell your close contacts you have COVID-19. This includes the people you live with, and your workplace or school. Advice on how to tell people you have COVID-19 | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) --- Section Separator --- Most people with COVID-19 — especially if they are fully vaccinated and boosted — are likely to have a mild to moderate illness and will be fine to recover at home. Symptoms for COVID-19 tend to show 2 to 5 days after a person has been infected but can take up to 14 days. Omicron causes similar symptoms to other variants. Advice on managing your COVID-19 symptoms | COVID-19 Health Hub (external link) If you need advice on how to treat your symptoms or have worsening symptoms, talk to your healthcare provider or call Healthline on 0800 358 5453 . If your symptoms get worse or you need urgent medical care, call your local healthcare provider or Healthline on 0800 358 5453 If you or the person you are caring for develops difficulty breathing, severe chest pain, fainting or becomes unconscious, call 111 immediately. If you require hospital-level care, it is free. Free antivirals to treat COVID-19 are available for people who are at risk of developing serious illness and for some people who have tested positive for COVID-19. Medicines to treat COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- You can end your self-isolation 7 days after your symptoms started or you tested positive, whichever came first. You cannot end your self-isolation early, even if a later test is negative during the 7 days. You do not need to wait for an official message to leave self-isolation. You may receive a text message confirming your self-isolation period has ended. You do not need a negative RAT result to return to work or school. Some people can still be infectious after 7 days. If you are still sick at the end of your self-isolation period, stay home until you are well and for 24 hours after you no longer have symptoms. After you have had COVID-19 --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can coordinate extra support for you if you need it. You may get COVID-19 while you are away from home. If you test positive while travelling, here is what you need to know. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after your initial COVID-19 symptoms. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. It can be hard supporting your tamariki (children) when they need to isolate with COVID-19. The COVID-19 Health Hub has advice on how to make things easier for children and parents. If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand, you will need to isolate for 7 days. Follow the isolation advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub. --- Section Separator --- The Ministry of Social Development (MSD) can coordinate extra support for you if you need it. You may get COVID-19 while you are away from home. If you test positive while travelling, here is what you need to know. Long COVID describes the symptoms that continue or develop after your initial COVID-19 symptoms. It is understandable to feel a range of emotions while unwell. Reach out to friends and whānau for support, or use a support service that is available. It can be hard supporting your tamariki (children) when they need to isolate with COVID-19. The COVID-19 Health Hub has advice on how to make things easier for children and parents. If you test positive for COVID-19 while visiting New Zealand, you will need to isolate for 7 days. Follow the isolation advice on the COVID-19 Health Hub.
